
Open In Colab
PDF to text

PDF to text
PyPDF2
#installing all the required libraries.
!pip install PyPDF2
Collecting PyPDF2
  Downloading PyPDF2-1.26.0.tar.gz (77 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 77 kB 3.8 MB/s 
Building wheels for collected packages: PyPDF2
  Building wheel for PyPDF2 (setup.py) ... done
  Created wheel for PyPDF2: filename=PyPDF2-1.26.0-py3-none-any.whl size=61100 sha256=a51a963849d7896a6b74b07efe478a963632c57e260ebedb776cdddfca2d1846
  Stored in directory: /root/.cache/pip/wheels/80/1a/24/648467ade3a77ed20f35cfd2badd32134e96dd25ca811e64b3
Successfully built PyPDF2
Installing collected packages: PyPDF2
Successfully installed PyPDF2-1.26.0
#converting pdf to text.
import PyPDF2
text=''
text1=''
FILE_PATH = '/content/drive/MyDrive/Neeraja/hist-eng.pdf'

with open(FILE_PATH, mode='rb') as f:

    reader = PyPDF2.PdfFileReader(f)
    num=reader.getNumPages()
    for i in range(num):
      page=reader.getPage(i)
      text=text+page.extractText()
    print(text) 
    text1=(reader.getPage(1)).extractText()
29Nationalism  in  IndiaAs you have seen, modern nationalism in Europe came to beassociated with the formation of nation-states. It also meant a changein people™s understanding of who they were, and what defined theiridentity and sense of belonging. New symbols and icons, new songsand ideas forged new links and redefined the boundaries ofcommunities. In most countries the making of this new nationalidentity was a long process. How did this consciousness emergein India?In India and as in  many other colonies, the growth of modernnationalism is intimately connected to the anti-colonial movement.
People began discovering their unity in the process of their strugglewith colonialism. The sense of being oppressed under colonialism
provided a shared bond that tied many different groups together.But each class and g
roup felt the effects of colonialism differently,
their experiences were varied, and their notions of freedom were
not always the same.  The Congress under Mahatma Gandhi tried
to forge these groups together within one movement. But the unitydid not emerge without conflict.In an earlier textbook you have read about the growth of nationalismin India up to the first decade of the twentieth century.
 In this chapterwe will pick up the story from the 1920s and study the Non-
Cooperation and Civil Disobedience Movements. W
e will explorehow the Congress sought to develop the national movement, howdifferent social groups participated in the movement, and hownationalism captured the imagination of people.Nationalism
  in  IndiaChapter IINationalism in IndiaFig. 1 Œ 6 April 1919.Mass processions onthe streets became a
common feature during
the national movement.India and the Contemporary World301  The First World War, Khilafat and Non-CooperationIn the years after 1919, we see the national movement spreading tonew areas, incorporating new social groups, and developing newmodes of struggle. How do we understand these developments?What implications did they have?First of all, the war created a new economic and political situation.It led to a huge increase in defence expenditure which was financedby war loans and increasing taxes: customs duties were raised and
income tax introduced. Through the war years prices increased Œdoubling between 1913 and 1918 Œ  leading to extreme hardshipfor the common people. Villages were called upon to supply soldiers,
and the forced recruitment in rural areas caused widespread anger.Then in 1918-19 and 1920-21, crops failed in many parts of India,
resulting in acute shortages of food. This was accompanied by an
influenza epidemic. According to the census of 1921, 12 to 13 millionpeople perished as a result of famines and  the epidemic.People hoped that their hardships would end after the war wasov
er. But that did not happen.At this stage a new leader appeared and suggested a new modeof struggle.1.1 The Idea of SatyagrahaMahatma Gandhi returned to India in January 1915. As you know,
he had come from South Africa where he had successfully foughtNew words
Forced recruitment Œ A process by which thecolonial state forced people to join the army
Fig. 2 Œ Indian workers in SouthAfrica march through Volksrust, 6November 1913.
Mahatma Gandhi was leading the
workers from Newcastle to
Transvaal. When the marchers were
stopped and Gandhiji arrested,
thousands of more workers joined
the satyagraha against racist lawsthat denied rights  to non-whites.31Nationalism  in  Indiathe racist regime with a novel method of mass agitation, which hecalled satyagraha. The idea of satyagraha emphasised the power oftruth and the need to search for truth. It suggested that if the causewas true, if the struggle was against injustice, then physical force wasnot necessary to fight the oppressor. W
ithout seeking vengeance orbeing aggr
essive,
 a satyagr
ahi could win the battle through non-violence. This could be done by  appealing to the conscience of the
oppressor. People Œ including the oppressors Œ had to be persuadedto see the truth, instead of being forced to accept truth through theuse of violence. By this struggle, truth was bound to ultimatelytriumph. Mahatma Gandhi believed that this dharma of non-violencecould unite all Indians.After arriving in India, Mahatma Gandhi successfully organised
satyagr
aha movements in various places. In 1917 he trav
elled toChamparan in  Bihar to inspire the peasants to struggle against theoppressive plantation system. Then in 1917,  he organised a satyagrahato support the peasants of the Kheda district of Gujarat. Affected
by crop failure and a plague epidemic, the peasants of Kheda couldnot pay the revenue, and were demanding that revenue collection be
relaxed. In 1918, Mahatma Gandhi went to Ahmedabad to organise
a satyagr
aha movement amongst cotton mill workers.
1.2 The Rowlatt ActEmboldened with this success, Gandhiji in 1919 decided to launch anationwide satyagraha against the proposed Rowlatt Act (1919). This
Act had been hurriedly passed through the Imperial LegislativeCouncil despite the united opposition of the Indian members.
 Itgav
e the gov
ernment enormous powers to repress political activities,and allowed detention of political prisoners without trial for twoyears. Mahatma Gandhi wanted non-violent civil disobedience againstsuch unjust laws, which would start with a hartal on 6 April.Rallies were organised in various cities, workers went on strike in
railway workshops, and shops closed down. Alarmed by the popularupsurge, and scared that lines of communication such as the railwaysand telegraph would be disrupted, the British administration decidedto clamp down on nationalists. Local leaders were picked up fromAmritsar, and Mahatma Gandhi was barred from entering Delhi.
On 10 April, the police in Amritsar fired upon a peaceful procession,provoking widespread attacks on banks, post offices and railwaystations. Martial law was imposed and General Dyer took command.Mahatma Gandhi on Satyagraha‚It is said of ﬁpassive resistanceﬂ that it is theweapon of the weak, but the power which is
the subject of this article can be used only
by the strong. This power is not passive
resistance; indeed it calls for intense activity
. Themovement in South Africa was not passive
but active  –‚ Satyagraha is not physical force. A satyagrahidoes not inflict pain on the adversary; he does
not seek his destruction – In the use ofsatyagraha, there is no ill-will whatever.‚ Satyagraha is pure soul-force. Truth is the verysubstance of the soul. That is why this force is
called satyagraha. The soul is informed with
knowledge. In it burns the flame of love. – Non-
violence is the supreme dharma –‚It is certain that India cannot rival Britain or
Europe in force of arms. The British worship the
war-god and they can all of them become, as
they are becoming, bearers of arms. The
hundreds of millions in India can never carry arms.
They have made the religion of non-violence their
own ...™SourceSource ARead the text carefully. What did MahatmaGandhi mean when he said satyagraha isactive resistance?ActivityIndia and the Contemporary World32On 13 April the infamous Jallianwalla Bagh incident took place. Onthat day a large crowd gathered in the enclosed ground of JallianwallaBagh. Some came to protest against the gov
ernment™s new repressive
measures. Others had come to attend the annual Baisakhi fair.  Beingfrom outside the city, many villagers were unaware of the martiallaw that had been imposed. Dyer entered the area, blocked the exitpoints, and opened fire on the crowd, killing hundreds. His object,as he declared later, was to ‚produce a moral effect™, to create in theminds of satyagrahis a feeling of terror and awe.As the news of Jallianwalla Bagh spread, crowds took to the streetsin many north Indian towns. T
here were strikes, clashes with thepolice and attacks on gov
ernment buildings. T
he gov
ernmentresponded with brutal repression, seeking to humiliate and terrorise
people: satyagrahis were forced to rub their noses on the ground,crawl on the streets, and do salaam (salute) to all sahibs; people wereflogg
ed and villages (around Gujranwala in Punjab,
 now in Pakistan)were bombed. Seeing violence spread, Mahatma Gandhi called offthe movement.While the Rowlatt satyagraha had been a widespread movement, itwas still limited mostly to cities and towns. Mahatma Gandhi now feltthe need to launch a more broad-based movement in India.  But he
was certain that no such movement could be organised without
bringing the Hindus and Muslims closer together. One way of doingthis, he felt, was to take up the Khilafat issue. T
he First World War hadended with the defeat of Ottoman Turkey. 
And there were rumoursthat a harsh peace treaty was going to be imposed on the Ottomanemperor Œ  the spiritual head of the Islamic world (the Khalifa). To
defend the Khalifa™s temporal powers,
 a Khilafat Committee wasformed in Bombay in March 1919. A young generation of Muslimleaders like the brothers Muhammad Ali and Shaukat Ali, begandiscussing with Mahatma Gandhi about the possibility of a united
mass action on the issue. Gandhiji saw this as an opportunity to bringMuslims under the umbrella of a unified national movement. At theCalcutta session of the Congress in September 1920, he convinced
other leaders of the need to start a non-cooperation movement in
support of Khilafat as well as for swaraj.1.3  Why Non-cooperation?In his famous book Hind Swaraj (1909) Mahatma Gandhi declaredthat British rule was established in India with the cooperation ofFig. 3 Œ General Dyer™s ‚crawling orders™ beingadministered by British soldiers, Amritsar,Punjab, 1919.33Nationalism  in  IndiaNew wordsBoycott Œ The refusal to deal and associate withpeople, or participate in activities, or buy and
use things; usually a form of protestIndians, and had survived only because of this cooperation. If Indiansrefused to cooperate, British rule in India would collapse within a
year, and swaraj would come.How could non-cooperation become a movement? Gandhijiproposed that the movement should unfold in stages. It should beginwith the surrender of titles that the government awarded, and aboycott of civil services, army,
 police, courts and legislative councils,schools, and foreign goods. T
hen, in case the gov
ernment usedrepression, a full civil disobedience campaign would be launched.
Through the summer of 1920 Mahatma Gandhi and Shaukat Alitoured extensively,
 mobilising popular support for the movement.Many within the Congress were, however, concerned about theproposals. T
hey were reluctant to boycott the council electionsscheduled for November 1920, and they feared that the movementmight lead to popular violence.  In the months between Septemberand December there was an intense tussle within the Congress. For awhile there seemed no meeting point between the supporters andthe opponents of the movement. Finally,
 at the Congress session atNagpur in December 1920, a compromise was worked out andthe Non-Cooperation programme was adopted.How did the movement unfold? Who participated in it? How diddifferent social groups conceive of the idea of Non-Cooperation?Fig. 4 Œ The boycott of foreigncloth, July 1922.Foreign cloth was seen as the
symbol of Western economic
and cultural domination.India and the Contemporary World342  Differing Strands within the MovementThe Non-Cooperation-Khilafat Movement began in January 1921.Various social groups participated in this movement, each with itsown specific aspiration. All of them responded to the call of Swaraj,
but the term meant different things to different people.2.1 The Movement in the TownsThe movement started with middle-class participation in the cities.Thousands of students left government-controlled schools andcolleges, headmasters and teachers resigned, and lawyers gave uptheir legal practices. 
The council elections were boycotted in mostprovinces except Madras, where the Justice Party, the party of thenon-Brahmans, felt that entering the council was one way of gaining
some power Œ something that usually only Brahmans had access to.The effects of non-cooperation on the economic front were moredramatic. Foreign goods were boycotted, liquor shops picketed,and foreign cloth burnt in huge bonfires. T
he import of foreigncloth halved between 1921 and 1922, its value dropping from
Rs 102 crore to Rs 57 crore. In many places merchants and tradersrefused to trade in foreign goods or finance foreign trade. As theboycott movement spread, and people began discarding imported
clothes and wearing only Indian ones, production of Indian textilemills and handlooms went up.But this movement in the cities gradually slowed down for a varietyof reasons. 
Khadi cloth was often more e
xpensive than mass-produced mill cloth and poor people could not afford to buy it.
How then could they boycott mill cloth for too long? Similarly the
boycott of British institutions posed a problem. For the movementto be successful, alternative Indian institutions had to be set up
so that they could be used in place of the British ones. T
hese wereslow to come up. So students and teachers began tricklingback to government schools and lawyers joined back work in
gov
ernment courts.2.2 Rebellion in the CountrysideFrom the cities, the Non-Cooperation Movement spread to thecountryside. It drew into its fold the struggles of peasants and tribalsNew wordsPicket Œ A form of demonstration or protestby which people block the entrance to a shop,factory or officeThe year is 1921. You are a student in agovernment-controlled school. Design aposter urging school students to answerGandhiji™s call to join the Non-CooperationMovement.Activity35Nationalism  in  Indiawhich were developing in different parts of India in the yearsafter the war.In Aw
adh, peasants were led by Baba Ramchandra Œ a sanyasi whohad earlier been to Fiji as an indentured labourer. The movementhere was against talukdars and landlords who demanded frompeasants exorbitantly high rents and a variety of other cesses. Peasantshad to do begar and work at landlords™ farms without any payment.As tenants they had no security of tenure, being regularly evicted so
that they could acquire no right over the leased land. The peasantmovement demanded reduction of revenue, abolition of begar, andsocial boycott of oppressive landlords. In many places nai Œ dhobibandhs were organised by panchayats to deprive landlords of theservices of even barbers and washermen. In June 1920, Jaw
aharlalNehru began going around the villages in Aw
adh, talking to thevillagers,
 and trying to understand their grievances. By October, theOudh Kisan Sabha was set up headed by Jawaharlal Nehru, BabaRamchandra and a few others. W
ithin a month, over 300 brancheshad been set up in the villages around the region. So when the Non-Cooperation Movement began the following year, the effort of theCongress was to integra
te the Aw
adh peasant struggle into the widerstruggle. T
he peasant movement, howev
er, developed in forms thatthe Congress leadership was unhappy with. As the movement spread
in 1921, the houses of talukdars and merchants were attacked,bazaars were looted, and grain hoards were taken over. In manyplaces local leaders told peasants that Gandhiji had declared that
no taxes were to be paid and land was to be redistributed among
the poor. T
he name of the Mahatma was being invoked to sanctionall action and aspirations.New wordsBegar Œ Labour that villagers were forced tocontribute without any paymentIf you were a peasant in Uttar Pradesh in 1920,how would you have responded to Gandhiji™s
call for Swaraj? Give reasons for your response.ActivityOn 6 January 1921, the police in United Provinces fired at peasants near Rae Bareli. Jawaharlal Nehru wanted to go to
the place of firing, but was stopped by the police. Agitated and angry, Nehru addressed the peasants who gatheredaround him. This is how he later described the meeting:‚They behaved as brav
e men, calm and unruffled in the face of danger. I do not know how they felt but I know whatmy feelings were. For a moment my blood was up, non-violence was almost forgotten Œ but for a moment only. Thethought of the great leader, who by God™s goodness has been sent to lead us to victory, came to me, and I saw thekisans seated and standing near me, less excited, more peaceful than I was Œ and the moment of weakness passed, Ispoke to them in all humility on non-violence Œ I needed the lesson more than they Œ and they heeded me andpeacefully dispersed.™Quoted in Sarvapalli Gopal, Jawaharlal Nehru: A Biography, Vol. I.SourceSource BIn 1928, Vallabhbhai Patel led the peasantmovement in Bardoli, a taluka in Gujarat, against
enhancement of land revenue. Known as the
Bardoli Satyagraha, this movement was a success
under the able leadership of Vallabhbhai Patel.The struggle was widely publicised and
generated immense sympathy in many parts
of India.India and the Contemporary World36Tribal peasants interpreted the message of Mahatma Gandhi andthe idea of swaraj in yet another way.
 In the Gudem Hills of AndhraPradesh, for instance, a militant guerrilla movement spread inthe early 1920s Œ  not a form of struggle that the Congress couldapprove. Here, as in other forest regions, the colonial government
had closed large forest areas, preventing people from entering
the forests to graze their cattle, or to collect fuelwood and fruits.This enraged the hill people. Not only were their livelihoods
affected but they felt that their traditional rights were being denied.
When the government began forcing them to contribute begarfor road building, the hill people revolted. The person who came
to lead them was an interesting figure. Alluri Sitaram Raju claimed
that he had a variety of special powers: he could make correct
astrological predictions and heal people, and he could surviveev
en bullet shots. Captiva
ted by Raju, the rebels proclaimed thathe was an incarnation of God. Raju talked of the greatness ofMahatma Gandhi, said he was inspired by the Non-CooperationMovement, and persuaded people to wear khadi and give up drinking.But at the same time he asserted that India could be liberated only
by the use of force, not non-violence. The Gudem rebels attacked
police stations, attempted to kill British officials and carried on
guerrilla warfare for achieving swaraj.  Raju was captured andex
ecuted in 1924, and over time became a folk hero.
2.3 Swaraj in the PlantationsWorkers too had their own understanding of Mahatma Gandhiand the notion of swaraj.  For plantation workers in Assam, freedommeant the right to move freely in and out of the confined space inwhich they were enclosed, and it meant retaining a link with thevillage from which they had come. Under the Inland EmigrationAct of 1859, plantation workers were not permitted to leave thetea gardens without permission, and in fact they were rarely givensuch permission. W
hen they heard of the Non-CooperationMovement, thousands of workers defied the authorities, left the
plantations and headed home. They believed that Gandhi Raj wascoming and everyone would be given land in their own villages.They, howev
er, never reached their destination. Stranded on the way
by a railway and steamer strike, they were caught by the police andbrutally beaten up.Find out about other participants in theNational Movement who were captured andput to death by the British. Can you think of asimilar example from the national movementin Indo-China (Chapter 2)?Activity37Nationalism  in  IndiaThe visions of these movements were not defined by the Congressprogr
amme. They interpreted the term swaraj in their own ways,imagining it to be a time when all suffering and all troubles wouldbe over. Y
et, when the tribals chanted Gandhiji™s name and raisedslogans demanding ‚Swatantra Bharat™, they were also emotionallyrelating to an all-India agitation. When they acted in the name of
Mahatma Gandhi, or linked their movement to that of the Congress,they were identifying with a movement which went beyond the limits
of their immediate locality.Fig. 5 Œ Chauri Chaura, 1922.At Chauri Chaura in Gorakhpur, a peaceful demonstration in a bazaar turned into aviolent clash with the police. Hearing of the incident, Mahatma Gandhi called a halt
to the Non-Cooperation Movement.India and the Contemporary World383  Towards Civil DisobedienceIn February 1922, Mahatma Gandhi decided to withdraw theNon-Cooperation Movement. He felt the movement was turningviolent in many places and satyagrahis needed to be properly trained
before they would be ready for mass struggles. 
Within the Congress,some leaders were by now tired of mass struggles and wanted toparticipate in elections to the provincial councils that had been setup by the Government of India Act of 1919. They felt that it wasimportant to oppose British policies within the councils, argue for
reform and also demonstrate that these councils were not trulydemocratic. C. R. Das and Motilal Nehru formed the Swaraj Partywithin the Congress to argue for a return to council politics. Butyounger leaders like Jawaharlal Nehru and Subhas Chandra Bosepressed for more radical mass agitation and for full independence.In such a situation of internal debate and dissension two factorsag
ain shaped Indian politics towards the late 1920s. T
he first wasthe effect of the worldwide economic depression. Agricultural prices
began to fall from 1926 and collapsed after 1930. As the demand
for agricultural goods fell and exports declined, peasants found itdifficult to sell their harvests and pay their rev
enue. By 1930, thecountryside was in turmoil.Against this background the new Tory gov
ernment in Britainconstituted a Statutory Commission under Sir John Simon. Set upin response to the nationalist movement, the
commission was to look into the functioning ofthe constitutional system in India and suggestchanges. T
he problem was that the commissiondid not have a single Indian member. T
hey wereall British.When the Simon Commission arrived in India in1928, it was greeted with the slogan ‚Go backSimon™. All parties, including the Congress and theMuslim League, participated in the demonstrations.In an effort to win them over, the viceroy,
 LordIrwin, announced in October 1929, a vague offer
of ‚dominion status™ for India in an unspecified
future,
 and a Round Tab
le Conference to discuss afuture constitution. This did not satisfy the Congressleaders. T
he radicals within the Congress, led byFig. 6 Œ Meeting of Congress leaders  at Allahabad, 1931.Apart from Mahatma Gandhi, you can see Sardar VallabhbhaiPatel (extreme left), Jawaharlal Nehru (extreme right) and Subhas
Chandra Bose (fifth from right).Lala Lajpat Rai was assaulted by the British policeduring a peaceful demonstration against the
Simon Commission. He succumbed to injuries
that were inflicted on him during the
demonstration.39Nationalism  in  IndiaJawaharlal Nehru and Subhas Chandra Bose, became more assertive.The liberals and moderates, who were proposing a constitutionalsystem within the framework of British dominion, gradually losttheir influence. In December 1929, under the presidency of Jawaharlal
Nehru, the Lahore Congress formalised the demand of ‚PurnaSwaraj™ or full independence for India. It was declared that 26 January
1930, would be celebrated as the Independence Day when people
were to take a pledge to struggle for complete independence. Butthe celebrations attracted very little attention. So Mahatma Gandhi
had to find a way to relate this abstract idea of freedom to more
concrete issues of everyday life.3.1 The Salt March and the Civil Disobedience MovementMahatma Gandhi found in salt a powerful symbol that could unitethe nation. On 31 January 1930, he sent a letter to Viceroy Irwinstating eleven demands. Some of these were of general interest;others were specific demands of different classes, from industrialiststo peasants. The idea was to make the demands wide-ranging, sothat all classes within Indian society could identify with them and
everyone could be brought together in a united campaign. The most
stirring of all was the demand to abolish the salt tax. Salt wassomething consumed by the rich and the poor alike, and it was oneof the most essential items of food. The tax on salt and the
government monopoly over its production, Mahatma Gandhi
declared, revealed the most oppressive face of British rule.Mahatma Gandhi™s letter was, in a way
, an ultimatum. If thedemands were not fulfilled by 11 March, the letter stated, theCongress would launch a civil disobedience campaign. Irwin wasunwilling to negotiate. So Mahatma Gandhi started his famous
salt march accompanied by 78 of his trusted volunteers. T
he march
was over 240 miles, from Gandhiji™s ashram in Sabarmati to theGujarati coastal town of Dandi. The volunteers walked for 24 days,
about 10 miles a day. T
housands came to hear Mahatma Gandhiwherever he stopped, and he told them what he meant by swaraj
and urged them to peacefully defy the British. On 6 April he reached
Dandi, and ceremonially violated the law,
 manufacturing salt byboiling sea water.This marked the beginning of the Civil Disobedience Movement.
How was this movement different from the Non-Cooperation
Movement? People were now asked not only to refuse cooperationThe Independence Day Pledge, 26 January1930‚We believe that it is the inalienable right of theIndian people, as of any other people, to have
freedom and to enjoy the fruits of their toil and
have the necessities of life, so that they may
have full opportunities of growth. We believe
also that if any government deprives a people of
these rights and oppresses them, the people
have a further right to alter it or to abolish it.
The British Government in India has not only
deprived the Indian people of their freedom but
has based itself on the exploitation of the masses,
and has ruined India economically, politically,culturally, and spiritually. We believe, therefore,that India must sever the British connection and
attain Purna Swaraj or Complete Independence.™Source CSourceIndia and the Contemporary World40with the British, as they had done in 1921-22, but also to breakcolonial laws. T
housands in different parts of the country brokethe salt law, manufactured salt and demonstrated in front ofgov
ernment salt factories. 
As the movement spread, foreign clothwas boycotted, and liquor shops were picketed. Peasants refused topay revenue and chaukidari taxes, village officials resigned, and inmany places forest people violated forest laws Œ going into ReservedForests to collect wood and graze cattle.Worried by the developments, the colonial gov
ernment beganarresting the Congress leaders one by one. This led to violent clashesin many palaces. W
hen Abdul Ghaffar Khan, a devout disciple ofMahatma Gandhi, was arrested in April 1930, angry crowds
demonstrated in the streets of Peshawar, facing armoured cars andpolice firing. Many were killed. A month later, when MahatmaGandhi himself was arrested, industrial workers in Sholapur attacked
police posts, municipal buildings, lawcourts and railway stations Œ
all structures that symbolised British rule. A frightened governmentresponded with a policy of brutal repression. Peaceful satyagrahiswere attacked, women and children were beaten, and about 100,000
people were arrested.In such a situation, Mahatma Gandhi once again decided to call offthe movement and entered into a pact with Irwin on 5 March 1931.
By this Gandhi-Irwin Pact, Gandhiji consented to participate in aRound Tab
le Conference (the Congress had boycotted the firstFig. 7 Œ The Dandi march.During the salt march MahatmaGandhi was accompanied by78 volunteers. On the waythey were joined by thousands.Fig. 8 Œ Police cracked down on satyagrahis,1930.41Nationalism  in  IndiaRound Tab
le Conference) in London and the gov
ernment agreed torelease the political prisoners. In December 1931, Gandhiji went toLondon for the conference, but the negotiations broke down andhe returned disappointed. Back in India, he discovered that the
government had begun a new cycle of repression. Ghaffar Khan
and Jawaharlal Nehru were both in jail, the Congress had been
declared illegal, and a series of measures had been imposed to prevent
meetings, demonstrations and boycotts. W
ith great apprehension,Mahatma Gandhi relaunched the Civil Disobedience Movement.
For over a year, the movement continued, but by 1934 it lostits momentum.3.2 How Participants saw the MovementLet us now look at the different social groups that participated in theCivil Disobedience Movement. Why did they join the movement?What were their ideals? What did swaraj mean to them?In the countryside, rich peasant communities Œ like the Patidars ofGujarat and the Jats of Uttar Pradesh Œ were active in the movement.
Being producers of commercial crops, they were very hard hit by
the trade depression and falling prices. 
As their cash incomedisappeared, they found it impossible to pay the gov
ernment™s rev
enuedemand. And the refusal of the government to reduce the revenue
demand led to widespread resentment. These rich peasants became
enthusiastic supporters of the Civil Disobedience Movement,
organising their communities, and at times forcing reluctant members,
to participate in the boycott progr
ammes. For them the fight forsw
araj was a struggle against high rev
enues. But they were deeplydisappointed when the movement was called off in 1931 without
the revenue rates being revised. So when the movement was restarted
in 1932, many of them refused to participate.The poorer peasantry were not just interested in the lowering of therevenue demand. Many of them were small tenants cultivating land
they had rented from landlords. 
As the Depression continued andcash incomes dwindled, the small tenants found it difficult to pay
their rent. They wanted the unpaid rent to the landlord to be remitted.
They joined a variety of radical movements, often led by Socialists
and Communists. A
pprehensive of raising issues that might upsetthe rich peasants and landlords, the Congress was unwilling to support
‚no rent™ campaigns in most places. So the relationship between thepoor peasants and the Congress remained uncertain.‚To the altar of this revolution we havebrought our youth as incense™Many nationalists thought that the struggleagainst the British could not be won through
non-violence. In 1928, the Hindustan Socialist
Republican Army (HSRA) was founded at a
meeting in Ferozeshah Kotla ground in Delhi.
Amongst its leaders were Bhagat Singh, Jatin
Das and Ajoy Ghosh. In a series of dramatic
actions in different parts of India, the HSRA
targeted some of the symbols of British power.In April 1929, Bhagat Singh and Batukeswar
Dutta threw a bomb in the Legislative Assembly.In the same year there was an attempt to blow
up the train that Lord Irwin was travelling in.
Bhagat Singh was 23 when he was tried and
executed by the colonial government. During
his trial, Bhagat Singh stated that he did not
wish to glorify ‚the cult of the bomb and pistol™
but wanted a revolution in society:‚Revolution is the inalienable right of mankind.Freedom is the imprescriptible birthright of all.
The labourer is the real sustainer of society –
To the altar of this revolution we have broughtour youth as incense, for no sacrifice is too
great for so magnificent a cause. We are
content. We await the advent of revolution.Inquilab Zindabad!™Box 1India and the Contemporary World42What about the business classes? How did they relate to the CivilDisobedience Movement? During the First World War, Indianmerchants and industrialists had made huge profits and become
powerful (see Chapter 5). Keen on expanding their business, they
now reacted against colonial policies that restricted business activities.They wanted protection against imports of foreign goods, and a
rupee-sterling foreign exc
hange ratio that would discourage imports.To organise business interests, they formed the Indian Industrialand Commercial Congress in 1920 and the Federation of the IndianChamber of Commerce and Industries (FICCI) in 1927. Led by
prominent industrialists like Purshottamdas Thakurdas andG.
 D. Birla, the industrialists attacked colonial control over the Indianeconomy,
 and supported the Civil Disobedience Movement whenit was first launched.  They gave financial assistance and refused to
buy or sell imported goods. Most businessmen came to see swarajas a time when colonial restrictions on business would no longerexist and trade and industry would flourish without constraints. Butafter the failure of the Round Tab
le Conference, business groupswere no longer uniformly enthusiastic. T
hey were apprehensive ofthe spread of militant activities, and worried about prolongeddisruption of business, as well as of the growing influence ofsocialism amongst the younger members of the Congress.The industrial working classes did not participate in the CivilDisobedience Movement in large numbers,
 except in the Nagpurregion. As the industrialists came closer to the Congress, workersstayed aloof. But in spite of that, some workers did participate inthe Civil Disobedience Movement, selectively adopting some ofthe ideas of the Gandhian programme, like boycott of foreign
goods, as part of their own movements against low wages andpoor working conditions. T
here were strikes by railwa
y workers in1930 and dockworkers in 1932. In 1930 thousands of workers inChotanagpur tin mines wore Gandhi caps and participated in protestrallies and boycott campaigns. But the Congress was reluctant toinclude workers™ demands as part of its progr
amme of struggle.It felt that this would alienate industrialists and divide the anti-imperial forces.Another important feature of the Civil Disobedience Movementwas the large-scale participation of women. During Gandhiji™s saltmarch, thousands of women came out of their homes to listen to
him. They participated in protest marches, manufactured salt, andSome important dates1918-19
Distressed UP peasants organised by BabaRamchandra.April 1919
Gandhian hartal against Rowlatt Act; JallianwalaBagh massacre.
January 1921
Non-Cooperation and Khilafat movementlaunched.February 1922
Chauri Chaura; Gandhiji withdraws Non-Cooperation movement.May 1924
Alluri Sitarama Raju arrested ending a two-yeararmed tribal struggle.December 1929
Lahore Congress; Congress adopts the demandfor ‚Purna Swaraj™.1930
Ambedkar establishes Depressed ClassesAssociation.March 1930
Gandhiji begins Civil Disobedience Movement bybreaking salt law at Dandi.March 1931
Gandhiji ends Civil Disobedience Movement.December 1931Second Round Table Conference.1932Civil Disobedience re-launched.43Nationalism  in  Indiapicketed foreign cloth and liquor shops. Many went to jail. In urbanareas these women were from high-caste families; in rural areasthey came from rich peasant households. Moved by Gandhiji™s call,they began to see service to the nation as a sacred duty of women.Yet, this increased public role did not necessarily mean any radicalchange in the way the position of women was visualised. Gandhijiwas convinced that it was the duty of women to look after home
and hearth, be good mothers and good wives. 
And for a long timethe Congress was reluctant to allow women to hold any position
of authority within the organisation. It was keen only on their
symbolic presence.3.3 The Limits of Civil DisobedienceNot all social groups were moved by the abstract concept of swaraj.One such group was the nation™s ‚untouchables™, who from aroundthe 1930s had begun to call themselves dalit or oppressed. Forlong the Congress had ignored the dalits, for fear of offending the
sanatanis, the conservative high-caste Hindus. But Mahatma Gandhideclared that swaraj would not come for a hundred years if
untouchability was not eliminated. He called the ‚untouchables™ harijan,Why did various classes and groups of Indiansparticipate in the Civil DisobedienceMovement?DiscussFig. 9 Œ Women joinnationalist processions.During the national
movement, many women,
for the first time in their
lives, moved out of their
homes on to a public arena.
Amongst the marchers you
can see many old women,
and mothers with children in
their arms.India and the Contemporary World44or the children of God, organised satyagraha to secure them entryinto temples, and access to public wells, tanks, roads and schools.He himself cleaned toilets to dignify the work of the bhangi (thesweepers), and persuaded upper castes to change their heart andgive up ‚the sin of untouchability™. But many dalit leaders were keen
on a different political solution to the problems of the community.They began organising themselves, demanding reserved seats ineducational institutions, and a separate electorate that would choose
dalit members for legislative councils. Political empowerment, theybelieved, would resolve the problems of their social disabilities.Dalit participation in the Civil Disobedience Movement was
therefore limited, particularly in the Maharashtra and Nagpur regionwhere their organisation was quite strong.Dr B.R. Ambedkar, who organised the dalits into the DepressedClasses Association in 1930, clashed with Mahatma Gandhi atthe second Round Tab
le Conference by demanding separateelectorates for dalits. W
hen the British gov
ernment concededAmbedkar™s demand, Gandhiji began a fast unto death. He believedthat separate electorates for dalits would slow down the process oftheir integra
tion into society. 
Ambedkar ultimately accepted Gandhiji™sposition and the result was the Poona Pact of September 1932.It gave the Depressed Classes (later to be known as the Schedule
Castes) reserved seats in provincial and central legislative councils,but they were to be voted in by the general electorate. The dalitmovement, however, continued to be apprehensive of the Congress-led national movement.Some of the Muslim political organisations in India were alsolukew
arm in their response to the Civil Disobedience Movement.After the decline of the Non-Cooperation-Khilafat movement, alarge section of Muslims felt alienated from the Congress. From themid-1920s the Congress came to be more visibly associated with
openly Hindu religious nationalist groups like the Hindu Mahasabha.
As relations between Hindus and Muslims worsened, eachcommunity organised religious processions with militant fervour,provoking Hindu-Muslim communal clashes and riots in variouscities. Every riot deepened the distance between the two communities.The Congress and the Muslim League made efforts to renegotiate
an alliance, and in 1927 it appeared that such a unity could be forged.
The important differences were over the question of representationin the future assemblies that were to be elected. Muhammad AliFig. 10 Œ Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehruand Maulana Azad at Sevagram Ashram,Wardha, 1935.45Nationalism  in  IndiaJinnah, one of the leaders of the Muslim League, was willing to giveup the demand for separate electorates, if Muslims were assured
reserved seats in the Central Assembly and representation inproportion to population in the Muslim-dominated provinces (Bengal
and Punjab). Negotiations over the question of representation
continued but all hope of resolving the issue at the All PartiesConference in 1928 disappeared when M.R. Jayakar of the HinduMahasabha strongly opposed efforts at compromise.When the Civil Disobedience Movement started there was thusan atmosphere of suspicion and distrust between communities.Alienated from the Congress, large sections of Muslims could notrespond to the call for a united struggle. Many Muslim leaders andintellectuals expressed their concern about the status of Muslims
as a minority within India. They feared that the culture and identity
of minorities would be submerged under the domination of aHindu majority.In 1930, Sir Muhammad Iqbal, as president of the Muslim League, reiterated the importance of separate electorates forthe Muslims as an important safeguard for their minority political interests. His statement is supposed to have provided the
intellectual justification for the Pakistan demand that came up in subsequent years. This is what he said:‚I have no hesitation in declaring that if the principle that the Indian Muslim is entitled to full and free development on thelines of his own culture and tradition in his own Indian home-lands is recognised as the basis of a permanent communal
settlement, he will be ready to stake his all for the freedom of India. The principle that each group is entitled to free
development on its own lines is not inspired by any feeling of narrow communalism – A community which is inspired by
feelings of ill-will towards other communities is low and ignoble. I entertain the highest respect for the customs, laws,
religions and social institutions of other communities. Nay, it is my duty according to the teachings of the Quran, even todefend their places of worship, if need be. Yet I love the communal group which is the source of lif
e and behaviour andwhich has formed me what I am by giving me its religion, its literature, its thought, its culture and thereby its whole past
as a living operative factor in my present consciousness –‚Communalism in its higher aspect, then, is indispensable to the formation of a harmonious whole in a country like India.The units of Indian society are not territorial as in European countries – The principle of European democracy cannot be
applied to India without recognising the fact of communal groups. The Muslim demand for the creation of a Muslim India
within India is, therefore, perfectly justified–‚The Hindu thinks that separate electorates are contrary to the spirit of true nationalism, because he understands theword ﬁnationﬂ to mean a kind of universal amalgamation in which no communal entity ought to retain its private individuality.
Such a state of things, however, does not exist. India is a land of racial and religious variety. Add to this the generaleconomic inferiority of the Muslims, their enormous debt, especially in the Punjab, and their insufficient majorities in some
of the provinces, as at present constituted and you will begin to see clearly the meaning of our anxiety to retain separate
electorates.™Source DSourceRead the Source D carefully. Do you agree with Iqbal™s idea of communalism? Can you define communalism in adifferent way?DiscussIndia and the Contemporary World464  The Sense of Collective BelongingNationalism spreads when people begin to believe that they are allpart of the same  nation, when they discover some unity that bindsthem together. But how did the nation become a reality in the mindsof people? How did people belonging to different communities,regions or language groups develop a sense of collective belonging?This sense of collective belonging came partly through the experienceof united struggles. But there were also a variety of cultural processesthrough which nationalism captured people™s imagination. Historyand fiction, folklore and songs, popular prints and symbols, all played
a part in the making of nationalism.Fig. 11 Œ Bal Gangadhar Tilak,an early-twentieth-century print.
Notice how Tilak is surrounded by symbols of
unity. The sacred institutions of different faiths
(temple, church, masjid) frame the central figure.47Nationalism  in  IndiaThe identity of the nation, as you know (see Chapter 1), is mostoften symbolised in a figure or image. This helps create an image
with which people can identify the nation. It was in the twentiethcentury,
 with the growth of nationalism, that the identity of Indiacame to be visually associated with the image of Bharat Mata. Theimage was first created by Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay.
 In the1870s he wrote ‚Vande Mataram™ as a hymn to the motherland.Later it was included in his novel Anandamath and widely sung duringthe Swadeshi movement in Bengal. Moved by the Swadeshimovement, Abanindranath Tag
ore painted his famous image ofBharat Mata (see Fig. 12). In this painting Bharat Mata is portray
edas an ascetic figure; she is calm, composed, divine and spiritual.
In subsequent years, the image of Bharat Mata acquired manydifferent forms, as it circulated in popular prints, and was paintedby different artists (see Fig. 14). Devotion to this mother figure cameto be seen as evidence of one™s nationalism.Ideas of nationalism also developed through a movement to revive
Indian folklore.  In late-nineteenth-century India, nationalists beganrecording folk tales sung by bards and they toured villages to gatherfolk songs and legends. T
hese tales, they believed, gav
e a true pictureof traditional culture that had been corrupted and damaged byoutside forces. It was essential to preserve this folk tradition  inorder to discover one™s national identity and restore a sense of pridein one™s past. In Bengal, Rabindranath Tag
ore himself began collectingballads, nursery rhymes and myths, and led the movement for folkFig. 12 Œ Bharat Mata, Abanindranath Tagore,1905.Notice that the mother figure here is shown as
dispensing learning, food and clothing. The mala
in one hand emphasises her ascetic quality.
Abanindranath Tagore, like Ravi Varma before
him, tried to develop a style of painting that
could be seen as truly Indian.Fig. 13 Œ Jawaharlal Nehru, a popular print.Nehru is here shown holding the image of Bharat Mata and the map of India
close to his heart. In a lot of popular prints, nationalist leaders are shown
offering their heads to Bharat Mata. The idea of sacrifice for the mother was
powerful within popular imagination.India and the Contemporary World48‚In earlier times, foreign travellers in India marvelled at the courage, truthfulness and modesty of the people of the Aryavamsa; now they remark mainly on the absence of those qualities. In those days Hindus would set out on conquest andhoist their flags in Tartar, China and other countries; now a few soldiers from a tiny island far awa
y are lording it over theland of India.™Tarinicharan Chattopadhyay
, Bharatbarsher Itihas (The History of Bharatbarsh),  vol. 1, 1858.Source ESourcerevival. In Madras, Natesa Sastri published a massive four-volumecollection of Tamil folk tales, 
The Folklore of Southern India. He believedthat folklore was national literature; it was ‚the most trustworthymanifestation of people™s real thoughts and characteristics™.As the national movement developed, nationalist leaders becamemore and more aware of such icons and symbols in unifying peopleand inspiring in them a feeling of nationalism. During the Swadeshimovement in Bengal, a tricolour flag (red, green and yellow) was
designed. It had eight lotuses representing eight provinces of BritishIndia, and a crescent moon, representing Hindus and Muslims. By1921, Gandhiji had designed the Swaraj flag.
 It was again a tricolour(red, green and white) and had a spinning wheel in the centre,
representing the Gandhian ideal of self-help. Carrying the flag,holding it aloft, during marches became a symbol of defiance.Another means of creating a feeling of nationalism was throughreinterpretation of history. By the end of the nineteenth centurymany Indians began feeling that to instill a sense of pride in thenation, Indian history had to be thought about differently. T
he Britishsaw Indians as backward and primitive, incapable of governing
themselves. In response, Indians began looking into the past todiscover India™s great achievements. T
hey wrote about the gloriousdevelopments in ancient times when art and architecture, science
and mathematics, religion and culture,
 law and philosophy,
 craftsand trade had flourished. T
his glorious time, in their view,
 wasfollowed by a history of decline, when India was colonised. These
nationalist histories urged the readers to take pride in India™s greatachievements in the past and struggle to change the miserab
leconditions of life under British rule.These efforts to unify people were not without problems. W
hen thepast being glorified was Hindu, when the images celebrated weredrawn from Hindu iconogra
phy,
 then people of other communitiesfelt left out.Fig. 14a Œ Bharat Mata.This figure of Bharat Mata is a contrast to theone painted by Abanindranath Tagore. Here she
is shown with a trishul, standing  beside a lionand an elephant Œ both symbols of power and
authority.Look at Figs. 12 and 14. Do you think theseimages will appeal to all castes and communities?Explain your views briefly.Activity49Nationalism  in  IndiaConclusionA growing anger against the colonial government was thusbringing together various groups and classes of Indians into acommon struggle for freedom in the first half of the twentiethcentury. The Congress under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi
tried to channel people™s grievances into organised movementsfor independence. Through such movements the nationaliststried to forge a national unity. But as we have seen, diverse groups
and classes participated in these movements with varied aspirationsand expectations. As theirgrievances were wide-ranging,
freedom from colonial rule alsomeant different things todifferent people. The Congress
continuously attempted toresolve differences, and ensurethat the demands of one group
did not alienate another. This isprecisely why the unity withinthe movement often broke down.
The high points of Congressactivity and nationalist unitywere followed by phases of
disunity and inner conflictbetween groups.In other words, what was emerging was a nation with manyvoices wanting freedom from colonial rule.Quit India MovementThe failure of the Cripps Mission and the effects of World War II created widespread discontentment in India. Thisled Gandhiji to launch a movement calling for complete withdrawal of the British from India. The Congress Working
Committee, in its meeting in Wardha on 14 July 1942, passed the historic ‚Quit India™ resolution demanding the
immediate transfer of power to Indians and quit India. On 8 August 1942 in Bombay, the All India Congress Committeeendorsed the resolution which called for a non-violent mass struggle on the widest possible scale throughout the
country. It was on this occasion that Gandhiji delivered the famous ‚Do or Die™ speech. The call for ‚Quit India™ almostbrought the state machinery to a standstill in large parts of the country as people voluntarily threw themselves into
the thick of the movement. People observed hartals, and demonstrations and processions were accompanied bynational songs and slogans. The movement was truly a mass movement which brought into its ambit thousands of
ordinary people, namely students, workers and peasants. It also saw the active participation of leaders, namely,Jayprakash Narayan, Aruna Asaf Ali and Ram Manohar Lohia and many women such as Matangini Hazra in Bengal,
Kanaklata Barua in Assam and Rama Devi in Odisha. The British responded with much force, yet it took more than a
year to suppress the movement.Fig. 14bWomen™s procession in Bombay during the Quit
India MovementIndia and the Contemporary World50DiscussProject1.List all the different social groups which joined the Non-Cooperation Movement of 1921.Then choose any three and write about their hopes and struggles to show why theyjoined the movement.2.Discuss the Salt March to make clear why it was an effective symbol of resistance
against colonialism.3.Imagine you are a woman participating in the Civil Disobedience Movement. Explain
what the experience meant to your life.4.Why did political leaders differ sharply over the question of separate electorates?Find out about the anti-colonial movement in Indo-China. Compare and contrast India™s national
movement with the ways in which Indo-China became independent.DiscussWrite in brief1.Explain:a)Why growth of nationalism in the colonies is linked to an anti-colonial movement.b)How the First World War helped in the growth of the National Movement in India.c)Why Indians were outraged by the Rowlatt Act.d)Why Gandhiji decided to withdraw the Non-Cooperation Movement.2.What is meant by the idea of satyagraha?3.Write a newspaper report on:
a)The Jallianwala Bagh massacreb)The Simon Commission4.Compare the images of Bharat Mata in this chapter with the image of Germaniain Chapter 1.Write in briefProject
PyMuPDF
!pip install fitz
!pip install PyMuPDF
import fitz

doc = fitz.open("/content/drive/MyDrive/Neeraja/hist-eng.pdf")
#text = page.getText("text")
Requirement already satisfied: fitz in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (0.0.1.dev2)
Requirement already satisfied: nibabel in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from fitz) (3.0.2)
Requirement already satisfied: configparser in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from fitz) (5.0.2)
Requirement already satisfied: pandas in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from fitz) (1.1.5)
Requirement already satisfied: numpy in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from fitz) (1.21.1)
Requirement already satisfied: httplib2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from fitz) (0.17.4)
Requirement already satisfied: nipype in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from fitz) (1.6.1)
Requirement already satisfied: pyxnat in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from fitz) (1.4)
Requirement already satisfied: configobj in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from fitz) (5.0.6)
Requirement already satisfied: scipy in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from fitz) (1.7.1)
Requirement already satisfied: six in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from configobj->fitz) (1.16.0)
Requirement already satisfied: traits!=5.0,>=4.6 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nipype->fitz) (6.2.0)
Requirement already satisfied: etelemetry>=0.2.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nipype->fitz) (0.2.2)
Requirement already satisfied: packaging in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nipype->fitz) (21.0)
Requirement already satisfied: prov>=1.5.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nipype->fitz) (2.0.0)
Requirement already satisfied: networkx>=2.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nipype->fitz) (2.5.1)
Requirement already satisfied: filelock>=3.0.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nipype->fitz) (3.0.12)
Requirement already satisfied: pydot>=1.2.3 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nipype->fitz) (1.3.0)
Requirement already satisfied: python-dateutil>=2.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nipype->fitz) (2.8.1)
Requirement already satisfied: click>=6.6.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nipype->fitz) (7.1.2)
Requirement already satisfied: simplejson>=3.8.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nipype->fitz) (3.17.3)
Requirement already satisfied: rdflib>=5.0.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nipype->fitz) (6.0.0)
Requirement already satisfied: requests in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from etelemetry>=0.2.0->nipype->fitz) (2.26.0)
Requirement already satisfied: ci-info>=0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from etelemetry>=0.2.0->nipype->fitz) (0.2.0)
Requirement already satisfied: decorator<5,>=4.3 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from networkx>=2.0->nipype->fitz) (4.4.2)
Requirement already satisfied: lxml>=3.3.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from prov>=1.5.2->nipype->fitz) (4.6.3)
Requirement already satisfied: pyparsing>=2.1.4 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pydot>=1.2.3->nipype->fitz) (2.4.7)
Requirement already satisfied: isodate in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from rdflib>=5.0.0->nipype->fitz) (0.6.0)
Requirement already satisfied: setuptools in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from rdflib>=5.0.0->nipype->fitz) (57.4.0)
Requirement already satisfied: pytz>=2017.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pandas->fitz) (2018.9)
Requirement already satisfied: pathlib>=1.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pyxnat->fitz) (1.0.1)
Requirement already satisfied: future>=0.16 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pyxnat->fitz) (0.16.0)
Requirement already satisfied: urllib3<1.27,>=1.21.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->etelemetry>=0.2.0->nipype->fitz) (1.26.6)
Requirement already satisfied: certifi>=2017.4.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->etelemetry>=0.2.0->nipype->fitz) (2021.5.30)
Requirement already satisfied: charset-normalizer~=2.0.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->etelemetry>=0.2.0->nipype->fitz) (2.0.4)
Requirement already satisfied: idna<4,>=2.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->etelemetry>=0.2.0->nipype->fitz) (3.2)
Requirement already satisfied: PyMuPDF in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (1.18.15)
text=""
for i in range(0,22):
  page=doc[i]
  text = text + page.getText("text")
print(text)
29
Nationalism  in  India
As you have seen, modern nationalism in Europe came to be
associated with the formation of nation-states. It also meant a change
in people’s understanding of who they were, and what defined their
identity and sense of belonging. New symbols and icons, new songs
and ideas forged new links and redefined the boundaries of
communities. In most countries the making of this new national
identity was a long process. How did this consciousness emerge
in India?
In India and as in  many other colonies, the growth of modern
nationalism is intimately connected to the anti-colonial movement.
People began discovering their unity in the process of their struggle
with colonialism. The sense of being oppressed under colonialism
provided a shared bond that tied many different groups together.
But each class and group felt the effects of colonialism differently,
their experiences were varied, and their notions of freedom were
not always the same.  The Congress under Mahatma Gandhi tried
to forge these groups together within one movement. But the unity
did not emerge without conflict.
In an earlier textbook you have read about the growth of nationalism
in India up to the first decade of the twentieth century. In this chapter
we will pick up the story from the 1920s and study the Non-
Cooperation and Civil Disobedience Movements. We will explore
how the Congress sought to develop the national movement, how
different social groups participated in the movement, and how
nationalism captured the imagination of people.
Nationalism  in  India
Chapter II
Nationalism in India
Fig. 1 – 6 April 1919.
Mass processions on
the streets became a
common feature during
the national movement.
2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
30
1  The First World War, Khilafat and Non-Cooperation
In the years after 1919, we see the national movement spreading to
new areas, incorporating new social groups, and developing new
modes of struggle. How do we understand these developments?
What implications did they have?
First of all, the war created a new economic and political situation.
It led to a huge increase in defence expenditure which was financed
by war loans and increasing taxes: customs duties were raised and
income tax introduced. Through the war years prices increased –
doubling between 1913 and 1918 –  leading to extreme hardship
for the common people. Villages were called upon to supply soldiers,
and the forced recruitment in rural areas caused widespread anger.
Then in 1918-19 and 1920-21, crops failed in many parts of India,
resulting in acute shortages of food. This was accompanied by an
influenza epidemic. According to the census of 1921, 12 to 13 million
people perished as a result of famines and  the epidemic.
People hoped that their hardships would end after the war was
over. But that did not happen.
At this stage a new leader appeared and suggested a new mode
of struggle.
1.1 The Idea of Satyagraha
Mahatma Gandhi returned to India in January 1915. As you know,
he had come from South Africa where he had successfully fought
New words
Forced recruitment – A process by which the
colonial state forced people to join the army
Fig. 2 – Indian workers in South
Africa march through Volksrust, 6
November 1913.
Mahatma Gandhi was leading the
workers from Newcastle to
Transvaal. When the marchers were
stopped and Gandhiji arrested,
thousands of more workers joined
the satyagraha against racist laws
that denied rights  to non-whites.
2020-21
31
Nationalism  in  India
the racist regime with a novel method of mass agitation, which he
called satyagraha. The idea of satyagraha emphasised the power of
truth and the need to search for truth. It suggested that if the cause
was true, if the struggle was against injustice, then physical force was
not necessary to fight the oppressor. Without seeking vengeance or
being aggressive, a satyagrahi could win the battle through non-
violence. This could be done by  appealing to the conscience of the
oppressor. People – including the oppressors – had to be persuaded
to see the truth, instead of being forced to accept truth through the
use of violence. By this struggle, truth was bound to ultimately
triumph. Mahatma Gandhi believed that this dharma of non-violence
could unite all Indians.
After arriving in India, Mahatma Gandhi successfully organised
satyagraha movements in various places. In 1917 he travelled to
Champaran in  Bihar to inspire the peasants to struggle against the
oppressive plantation system. Then in 1917,  he organised a satyagraha
to support the peasants of the Kheda district of Gujarat. Affected
by crop failure and a plague epidemic, the peasants of Kheda could
not pay the revenue, and were demanding that revenue collection be
relaxed. In 1918, Mahatma Gandhi went to Ahmedabad to organise
a satyagraha movement amongst cotton mill workers.
1.2 The Rowlatt Act
Emboldened with this success, Gandhiji in 1919 decided to launch a
nationwide satyagraha against the proposed Rowlatt Act (1919). This
Act had been hurriedly passed through the Imperial Legislative
Council despite the united opposition of the Indian members. It
gave the government enormous powers to repress political activities,
and allowed detention of political prisoners without trial for two
years. Mahatma Gandhi wanted non-violent civil disobedience against
such unjust laws, which would start with a hartal on 6 April.
Rallies were organised in various cities, workers went on strike in
railway workshops, and shops closed down. Alarmed by the popular
upsurge, and scared that lines of communication such as the railways
and telegraph would be disrupted, the British administration decided
to clamp down on nationalists. Local leaders were picked up from
Amritsar, and Mahatma Gandhi was barred from entering Delhi.
On 10 April, the police in Amritsar fired upon a peaceful procession,
provoking widespread attacks on banks, post offices and railway
stations. Martial law was imposed and General Dyer took command.
Mahatma Gandhi on Satyagraha
‘It is said of “passive resistance” that it is the
weapon of the weak, but the power which is
the subject of this article can be used only
by the strong. This power is not passive
resistance; indeed it calls for intense activity. The
movement in South Africa was not passive
but active  …
‘ Satyagraha is not physical force. A satyagrahi
does not inflict pain on the adversary; he does
not seek his destruction … In the use of
satyagraha, there is no ill-will whatever.
‘ Satyagraha is pure soul-force. Truth is the very
substance of the soul. That is why this force is
called satyagraha. The soul is informed with
knowledge. In it burns the flame of love. … Non-
violence is the supreme dharma …
‘It is certain that India cannot rival Britain or
Europe in force of arms. The British worship the
war-god and they can all of them become, as
they are becoming, bearers of arms. The
hundreds of millions in India can never carry arms.
They have made the religion of non-violence their
own ...’
Source
Source A
Read the text carefully. What did Mahatma
Gandhi mean when he said satyagraha is
active resistance?
Activity
2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
32
On 13 April the infamous Jallianwalla Bagh incident took place. On
that day a large crowd gathered in the enclosed ground of Jallianwalla
Bagh. Some came to protest against the government’s new repressive
measures. Others had come to attend the annual Baisakhi fair.  Being
from outside the city, many villagers were unaware of the martial
law that had been imposed. Dyer entered the area, blocked the exit
points, and opened fire on the crowd, killing hundreds. His object,
as he declared later, was to ‘produce a moral effect’, to create in the
minds of satyagrahis a feeling of terror and awe.
As the news of Jallianwalla Bagh spread, crowds took to the streets
in many north Indian towns. There were strikes, clashes with the
police and attacks on government buildings. The government
responded with brutal repression, seeking to humiliate and terrorise
people: satyagrahis were forced to rub their noses on the ground,
crawl on the streets, and do salaam (salute) to all sahibs; people were
flogged and villages (around Gujranwala in Punjab, now in Pakistan)
were bombed. Seeing violence spread, Mahatma Gandhi called off
the movement.
While the Rowlatt satyagraha had been a widespread movement, it
was still limited mostly to cities and towns. Mahatma Gandhi now felt
the need to launch a more broad-based movement in India.  But he
was certain that no such movement could be organised without
bringing the Hindus and Muslims closer together. One way of doing
this, he felt, was to take up the Khilafat issue. The First World War had
ended with the defeat of Ottoman Turkey. And there were rumours
that a harsh peace treaty was going to be imposed on the Ottoman
emperor –  the spiritual head of the Islamic world (the Khalifa). To
defend the Khalifa’s temporal powers, a Khilafat Committee was
formed in Bombay in March 1919. A young generation of Muslim
leaders like the brothers Muhammad Ali and Shaukat Ali, began
discussing with Mahatma Gandhi about the possibility of a united
mass action on the issue. Gandhiji saw this as an opportunity to bring
Muslims under the umbrella of a unified national movement. At the
Calcutta session of the Congress in September 1920, he convinced
other leaders of the need to start a non-cooperation movement in
support of Khilafat as well as for swaraj.
1.3  Why Non-cooperation?
In his famous book Hind Swaraj (1909) Mahatma Gandhi declared
that British rule was established in India with the cooperation of
Fig. 3 – General Dyer’s ‘crawling orders’ being
administered by British soldiers, Amritsar,
Punjab, 1919.
2020-21
33
Nationalism  in  India
New words
Boycott – The refusal to deal and associate with
people, or participate in activities, or buy and
use things; usually a form of protest
Indians, and had survived only because of this cooperation. If Indians
refused to cooperate, British rule in India would collapse within a
year, and swaraj would come.
How could non-cooperation become a movement? Gandhiji
proposed that the movement should unfold in stages. It should begin
with the surrender of titles that the government awarded, and a
boycott of civil services, army, police, courts and legislative councils,
schools, and foreign goods. Then, in case the government used
repression, a full civil disobedience campaign would be launched.
Through the summer of 1920 Mahatma Gandhi and Shaukat Ali
toured extensively, mobilising popular support for the movement.
Many within the Congress were, however, concerned about the
proposals. They were reluctant to boycott the council elections
scheduled for November 1920, and they feared that the movement
might lead to popular violence.  In the months between September
and December there was an intense tussle within the Congress. For a
while there seemed no meeting point between the supporters and
the opponents of the movement. Finally, at the Congress session at
Nagpur in December 1920, a compromise was worked out and
the Non-Cooperation programme was adopted.
How did the movement unfold? Who participated in it? How did
different social groups conceive of the idea of Non-Cooperation?
Fig. 4 – The boycott of foreign
cloth, July 1922.
Foreign cloth was seen as the
symbol of Western economic
and cultural domination.
2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
34
2  Differing Strands within the Movement
The Non-Cooperation-Khilafat Movement began in January 1921.
Various social groups participated in this movement, each with its
own specific aspiration. All of them responded to the call of Swaraj,
but the term meant different things to different people.
2.1 The Movement in the Towns
The movement started with middle-class participation in the cities.
Thousands of students left government-controlled schools and
colleges, headmasters and teachers resigned, and lawyers gave up
their legal practices. The council elections were boycotted in most
provinces except Madras, where the Justice Party, the party of the
non-Brahmans, felt that entering the council was one way of gaining
some power – something that usually only Brahmans had access to.
The effects of non-cooperation on the economic front were more
dramatic. Foreign goods were boycotted, liquor shops picketed,
and foreign cloth burnt in huge bonfires. The import of foreign
cloth halved between 1921 and 1922, its value dropping from
Rs 102 crore to Rs 57 crore. In many places merchants and traders
refused to trade in foreign goods or finance foreign trade. As the
boycott movement spread, and people began discarding imported
clothes and wearing only Indian ones, production of Indian textile
mills and handlooms went up.
But this movement in the cities gradually slowed down for a variety
of reasons. Khadi cloth was often more expensive than mass-
produced mill cloth and poor people could not afford to buy it.
How then could they boycott mill cloth for too long? Similarly the
boycott of British institutions posed a problem. For the movement
to be successful, alternative Indian institutions had to be set up
so that they could be used in place of the British ones. These were
slow to come up. So students and teachers began trickling
back to government schools and lawyers joined back work in
government courts.
2.2 Rebellion in the Countryside
From the cities, the Non-Cooperation Movement spread to the
countryside. It drew into its fold the struggles of peasants and tribals
New words
Picket – A form of demonstration or protest
by which people block the entrance to a shop,
factory or office
The year is 1921. You are a student in a
government-controlled school. Design a
poster urging school students to answer
Gandhiji’s call to join the Non-Cooperation
Movement.
Activity
2020-21
35
Nationalism  in  India
which were developing in different parts of India in the years
after the war.
In Awadh, peasants were led by Baba Ramchandra – a sanyasi who
had earlier been to Fiji as an indentured labourer. The movement
here was against talukdars and landlords who demanded from
peasants exorbitantly high rents and a variety of other cesses. Peasants
had to do begar and work at landlords’ farms without any payment.
As tenants they had no security of tenure, being regularly evicted so
that they could acquire no right over the leased land. The peasant
movement demanded reduction of revenue, abolition of begar, and
social boycott of oppressive landlords. In many places nai – dhobi
bandhs were organised by panchayats to deprive landlords of the
services of even barbers and washermen. In June 1920, Jawaharlal
Nehru began going around the villages in Awadh, talking to the
villagers, and trying to understand their grievances. By October, the
Oudh Kisan Sabha was set up headed by Jawaharlal Nehru, Baba
Ramchandra and a few others. Within a month, over 300 branches
had been set up in the villages around the region. So when the Non-
Cooperation Movement began the following year, the effort of the
Congress was to integrate the Awadh peasant struggle into the wider
struggle. The peasant movement, however, developed in forms that
the Congress leadership was unhappy with. As the movement spread
in 1921, the houses of talukdars and merchants were attacked,
bazaars were looted, and grain hoards were taken over. In many
places local leaders told peasants that Gandhiji had declared that
no taxes were to be paid and land was to be redistributed among
the poor. The name of the Mahatma was being invoked to sanction
all action and aspirations.
New words
Begar – Labour that villagers were forced to
contribute without any payment
If you were a peasant in Uttar Pradesh in 1920,
how would you have responded to Gandhiji’s
call for Swaraj? Give reasons for your response.
Activity
On 6 January 1921, the police in United Provinces fired at peasants near Rae Bareli. Jawaharlal Nehru wanted to go to
the place of firing, but was stopped by the police. Agitated and angry, Nehru addressed the peasants who gathered
around him. This is how he later described the meeting:
‘They behaved as brave men, calm and unruffled in the face of danger. I do not know how they felt but I know what
my feelings were. For a moment my blood was up, non-violence was almost forgotten – but for a moment only. The
thought of the great leader, who by God’s goodness has been sent to lead us to victory, came to me, and I saw the
kisans seated and standing near me, less excited, more peaceful than I was – and the moment of weakness passed, I
spoke to them in all humility on non-violence – I needed the lesson more than they – and they heeded me and
peacefully dispersed.’
Quoted in Sarvapalli Gopal, Jawaharlal Nehru: A Biography, Vol. I.
Source
Source B
In 1928, Vallabhbhai Patel led the peasant
movement in Bardoli, a taluka in Gujarat, against
enhancement of land revenue. Known as the
Bardoli Satyagraha, this movement was a success
under the able leadership of Vallabhbhai Patel.
The struggle was widely publicised and
generated immense sympathy in many parts
of India.
2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
36
Tribal peasants interpreted the message of Mahatma Gandhi and
the idea of swaraj in yet another way. In the Gudem Hills of Andhra
Pradesh, for instance, a militant guerrilla movement spread in
the early 1920s –  not a form of struggle that the Congress could
approve. Here, as in other forest regions, the colonial government
had closed large forest areas, preventing people from entering
the forests to graze their cattle, or to collect fuelwood and fruits.
This enraged the hill people. Not only were their livelihoods
affected but they felt that their traditional rights were being denied.
When the government began forcing them to contribute begar
for road building, the hill people revolted. The person who came
to lead them was an interesting figure. Alluri Sitaram Raju claimed
that he had a variety of special powers: he could make correct
astrological predictions and heal people, and he could survive
even bullet shots. Captivated by Raju, the rebels proclaimed that
he was an incarnation of God. Raju talked of the greatness of
Mahatma Gandhi, said he was inspired by the Non-Cooperation
Movement, and persuaded people to wear khadi and give up drinking.
But at the same time he asserted that India could be liberated only
by the use of force, not non-violence. The Gudem rebels attacked
police stations, attempted to kill British officials and carried on
guerrilla warfare for achieving swaraj.  Raju was captured and
executed in 1924, and over time became a folk hero.
2.3 Swaraj in the Plantations
Workers too had their own understanding of Mahatma Gandhi
and the notion of swaraj.  For plantation workers in Assam, freedom
meant the right to move freely in and out of the confined space in
which they were enclosed, and it meant retaining a link with the
village from which they had come. Under the Inland Emigration
Act of 1859, plantation workers were not permitted to leave the
tea gardens without permission, and in fact they were rarely given
such permission. When they heard of the Non-Cooperation
Movement, thousands of workers defied the authorities, left the
plantations and headed home. They believed that Gandhi Raj was
coming and everyone would be given land in their own villages.
They, however, never reached their destination. Stranded on the way
by a railway and steamer strike, they were caught by the police and
brutally beaten up.
Find out about other participants in the
National Movement who were captured and
put to death by the British. Can you think of a
similar example from the national movement
in Indo-China (Chapter 2)?
Activity
2020-21
37
Nationalism  in  India
The visions of these movements were not defined by the Congress
programme. They interpreted the term swaraj in their own ways,
imagining it to be a time when all suffering and all troubles would
be over. Yet, when the tribals chanted Gandhiji’s name and raised
slogans demanding ‘Swatantra Bharat’, they were also emotionally
relating to an all-India agitation. When they acted in the name of
Mahatma Gandhi, or linked their movement to that of the Congress,
they were identifying with a movement which went beyond the limits
of their immediate locality.
Fig. 5 – Chauri Chaura, 1922.
At Chauri Chaura in Gorakhpur, a peaceful demonstration in a bazaar turned into a
violent clash with the police. Hearing of the incident, Mahatma Gandhi called a halt
to the Non-Cooperation Movement.
2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
38
3  Towards Civil Disobedience
In February 1922, Mahatma Gandhi decided to withdraw the
Non-Cooperation Movement. He felt the movement was turning
violent in many places and satyagrahis needed to be properly trained
before they would be ready for mass struggles. Within the Congress,
some leaders were by now tired of mass struggles and wanted to
participate in elections to the provincial councils that had been set
up by the Government of India Act of 1919. They felt that it was
important to oppose British policies within the councils, argue for
reform and also demonstrate that these councils were not truly
democratic. C. R. Das and Motilal Nehru formed the Swaraj Party
within the Congress to argue for a return to council politics. But
younger leaders like Jawaharlal Nehru and Subhas Chandra Bose
pressed for more radical mass agitation and for full independence.
In such a situation of internal debate and dissension two factors
again shaped Indian politics towards the late 1920s. The first was
the effect of the worldwide economic depression. Agricultural prices
began to fall from 1926 and collapsed after 1930. As the demand
for agricultural goods fell and exports declined, peasants found it
difficult to sell their harvests and pay their revenue. By 1930, the
countryside was in turmoil.
Against this background the new Tory government in Britain
constituted a Statutory Commission under Sir John Simon. Set up
in response to the nationalist movement, the
commission was to look into the functioning of
the constitutional system in India and suggest
changes. The problem was that the commission
did not have a single Indian member. They were
all British.
When the Simon Commission arrived in India in
1928, it was greeted with the slogan ‘Go back
Simon’. All parties, including the Congress and the
Muslim League, participated in the demonstrations.
In an effort to win them over, the viceroy, Lord
Irwin, announced in October 1929, a vague offer
of ‘dominion status’ for India in an unspecified
future, and a Round Table Conference to discuss a
future constitution. This did not satisfy the Congress
leaders. The radicals within the Congress, led by
Fig. 6 – Meeting of Congress leaders  at Allahabad, 1931.
Apart from Mahatma Gandhi, you can see Sardar Vallabhbhai
Patel (extreme left), Jawaharlal Nehru (extreme right) and Subhas
Chandra Bose (fifth from right).
Lala Lajpat Rai was assaulted by the British police
during a peaceful demonstration against the
Simon Commission. He succumbed to injuries
that were inflicted on him during the
demonstration.
2020-21
39
Nationalism  in  India
Jawaharlal Nehru and Subhas Chandra Bose, became more assertive.
The liberals and moderates, who were proposing a constitutional
system within the framework of British dominion, gradually lost
their influence. In December 1929, under the presidency of Jawaharlal
Nehru, the Lahore Congress formalised the demand of ‘Purna
Swaraj’ or full independence for India. It was declared that 26 January
1930, would be celebrated as the Independence Day when people
were to take a pledge to struggle for complete independence. But
the celebrations attracted very little attention. So Mahatma Gandhi
had to find a way to relate this abstract idea of freedom to more
concrete issues of everyday life.
3.1 The Salt March and the Civil Disobedience Movement
Mahatma Gandhi found in salt a powerful symbol that could unite
the nation. On 31 January 1930, he sent a letter to Viceroy Irwin
stating eleven demands. Some of these were of general interest;
others were specific demands of different classes, from industrialists
to peasants. The idea was to make the demands wide-ranging, so
that all classes within Indian society could identify with them and
everyone could be brought together in a united campaign. The most
stirring of all was the demand to abolish the salt tax. Salt was
something consumed by the rich and the poor alike, and it was one
of the most essential items of food. The tax on salt and the
government monopoly over its production, Mahatma Gandhi
declared, revealed the most oppressive face of British rule.
Mahatma Gandhi’s letter was, in a way, an ultimatum. If the
demands were not fulfilled by 11 March, the letter stated, the
Congress would launch a civil disobedience campaign. Irwin was
unwilling to negotiate. So Mahatma Gandhi started his famous
salt march accompanied by 78 of his trusted volunteers. The march
was over 240 miles, from Gandhiji’s ashram in Sabarmati to the
Gujarati coastal town of Dandi. The volunteers walked for 24 days,
about 10 miles a day. Thousands came to hear Mahatma Gandhi
wherever he stopped, and he told them what he meant by swaraj
and urged them to peacefully defy the British. On 6 April he reached
Dandi, and ceremonially violated the law, manufacturing salt by
boiling sea water.
This marked the beginning of the Civil Disobedience Movement.
How was this movement different from the Non-Cooperation
Movement? People were now asked not only to refuse cooperation
The Independence Day Pledge, 26 January
1930
‘We believe that it is the inalienable right of the
Indian people, as of any other people, to have
freedom and to enjoy the fruits of their toil and
have the necessities of life, so that they may
have full opportunities of growth. We believe
also that if any government deprives a people of
these rights and oppresses them, the people
have a further right to alter it or to abolish it.
The British Government in India has not only
deprived the Indian people of their freedom but
has based itself on the exploitation of the masses,
and has ruined India economically, politically,
culturally, and spiritually. We believe, therefore,
that India must sever the British connection and
attain Purna Swaraj or Complete Independence.’
Source C
Source
2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
40
with the British, as they had done in 1921-22, but also to break
colonial laws. Thousands in different parts of the country broke
the salt law, manufactured salt and demonstrated in front of
government salt factories. As the movement spread, foreign cloth
was boycotted, and liquor shops were picketed. Peasants refused to
pay revenue and chaukidari taxes, village officials resigned, and in
many places forest people violated forest laws – going into Reserved
Forests to collect wood and graze cattle.
Worried by the developments, the colonial government began
arresting the Congress leaders one by one. This led to violent clashes
in many palaces. When Abdul Ghaffar Khan, a devout disciple of
Mahatma Gandhi, was arrested in April 1930, angry crowds
demonstrated in the streets of Peshawar, facing armoured cars and
police firing. Many were killed. A month later, when Mahatma
Gandhi himself was arrested, industrial workers in Sholapur attacked
police posts, municipal buildings, lawcourts and railway stations –
all structures that symbolised British rule. A frightened government
responded with a policy of brutal repression. Peaceful satyagrahis
were attacked, women and children were beaten, and about 100,000
people were arrested.
In such a situation, Mahatma Gandhi once again decided to call off
the movement and entered into a pact with Irwin on 5 March 1931.
By this Gandhi-Irwin Pact, Gandhiji consented to participate in a
Round Table Conference (the Congress had boycotted the first
Fig. 7 – The Dandi march.
During the salt march Mahatma
Gandhi was accompanied by
78 volunteers. On the way
they were joined by thousands.
Fig. 8 – Police cracked down on satyagrahis,
1930.
2020-21
41
Nationalism  in  India
Round Table Conference) in London and the government agreed to
release the political prisoners. In December 1931, Gandhiji went to
London for the conference, but the negotiations broke down and
he returned disappointed. Back in India, he discovered that the
government had begun a new cycle of repression. Ghaffar Khan
and Jawaharlal Nehru were both in jail, the Congress had been
declared illegal, and a series of measures had been imposed to prevent
meetings, demonstrations and boycotts. With great apprehension,
Mahatma Gandhi relaunched the Civil Disobedience Movement.
For over a year, the movement continued, but by 1934 it lost
its momentum.
3.2 How Participants saw the Movement
Let us now look at the different social groups that participated in the
Civil Disobedience Movement. Why did they join the movement?
What were their ideals? What did swaraj mean to them?
In the countryside, rich peasant communities – like the Patidars of
Gujarat and the Jats of Uttar Pradesh – were active in the movement.
Being producers of commercial crops, they were very hard hit by
the trade depression and falling prices. As their cash income
disappeared, they found it impossible to pay the government’s revenue
demand. And the refusal of the government to reduce the revenue
demand led to widespread resentment. These rich peasants became
enthusiastic supporters of the Civil Disobedience Movement,
organising their communities, and at times forcing reluctant members,
to participate in the boycott programmes. For them the fight for
swaraj was a struggle against high revenues. But they were deeply
disappointed when the movement was called off in 1931 without
the revenue rates being revised. So when the movement was restarted
in 1932, many of them refused to participate.
The poorer peasantry were not just interested in the lowering of the
revenue demand. Many of them were small tenants cultivating land
they had rented from landlords. As the Depression continued and
cash incomes dwindled, the small tenants found it difficult to pay
their rent. They wanted the unpaid rent to the landlord to be remitted.
They joined a variety of radical movements, often led by Socialists
and Communists. Apprehensive of raising issues that might upset
the rich peasants and landlords, the Congress was unwilling to support
‘no rent’ campaigns in most places. So the relationship between the
poor peasants and the Congress remained uncertain.
‘To the altar of this revolution we have
brought our youth as incense’
Many nationalists thought that the struggle
against the British could not be won through
non-violence. In 1928, the Hindustan Socialist
Republican Army (HSRA) was founded at a
meeting in Ferozeshah Kotla ground in Delhi.
Amongst its leaders were Bhagat Singh, Jatin
Das and Ajoy Ghosh. In a series of dramatic
actions in different parts of India, the HSRA
targeted some of the symbols of British power.
In April 1929, Bhagat Singh and Batukeswar
Dutta threw a bomb in the Legislative Assembly.
In the same year there was an attempt to blow
up the train that Lord Irwin was travelling in.
Bhagat Singh was 23 when he was tried and
executed by the colonial government. During
his trial, Bhagat Singh stated that he did not
wish to glorify ‘the cult of the bomb and pistol’
but wanted a revolution in society:
‘Revolution is the inalienable right of mankind.
Freedom is the imprescriptible birthright of all.
The labourer is the real sustainer of society …
To the altar of this revolution we have brought
our youth as incense, for no sacrifice is too
great for so magnificent a cause. We are
content. We await the advent of revolution.
Inquilab Zindabad!’
Box 1
2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
42
What about the business classes? How did they relate to the Civil
Disobedience Movement? During the First World War, Indian
merchants and industrialists had made huge profits and become
powerful (see Chapter 5). Keen on expanding their business, they
now reacted against colonial policies that restricted business activities.
They wanted protection against imports of foreign goods, and a
rupee-sterling foreign exchange ratio that would discourage imports.
To organise business interests, they formed the Indian Industrial
and Commercial Congress in 1920 and the Federation of the Indian
Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FICCI) in 1927. Led by
prominent industrialists like Purshottamdas Thakurdas and
G. D. Birla, the industrialists attacked colonial control over the Indian
economy, and supported the Civil Disobedience Movement when
it was first launched.  They gave financial assistance and refused to
buy or sell imported goods. Most businessmen came to see swaraj
as a time when colonial restrictions on business would no longer
exist and trade and industry would flourish without constraints. But
after the failure of the Round Table Conference, business groups
were no longer uniformly enthusiastic. They were apprehensive of
the spread of militant activities, and worried about prolonged
disruption of business, as well as of the growing influence of
socialism amongst the younger members of the Congress.
The industrial working classes did not participate in the Civil
Disobedience Movement in large numbers, except in the Nagpur
region. As the industrialists came closer to the Congress, workers
stayed aloof. But in spite of that, some workers did participate in
the Civil Disobedience Movement, selectively adopting some of
the ideas of the Gandhian programme, like boycott of foreign
goods, as part of their own movements against low wages and
poor working conditions. There were strikes by railway workers in
1930 and dockworkers in 1932. In 1930 thousands of workers in
Chotanagpur tin mines wore Gandhi caps and participated in protest
rallies and boycott campaigns. But the Congress was reluctant to
include workers’ demands as part of its programme of struggle.
It felt that this would alienate industrialists and divide the anti-
imperial forces.
Another important feature of the Civil Disobedience Movement
was the large-scale participation of women. During Gandhiji’s salt
march, thousands of women came out of their homes to listen to
him. They participated in protest marches, manufactured salt, and
Some important dates
1918-19
Distressed UP peasants organised by Baba
Ramchandra.
April 1919
Gandhian hartal against Rowlatt Act; Jallianwala
Bagh massacre.
January 1921
Non-Cooperation and Khilafat movement
launched.
February 1922
Chauri Chaura; Gandhiji withdraws Non-
Cooperation movement.
May 1924
Alluri Sitarama Raju arrested ending a two-year
armed tribal struggle.
December 1929
Lahore Congress; Congress adopts the demand
for ‘Purna Swaraj’.
1930
Ambedkar establishes Depressed Classes
Association.
March 1930
Gandhiji begins Civil Disobedience Movement by
breaking salt law at Dandi.
March 1931
Gandhiji ends Civil Disobedience Movement.
December 1931
Second Round Table Conference.
1932
Civil Disobedience re-launched.
2020-21
43
Nationalism  in  India
picketed foreign cloth and liquor shops. Many went to jail. In urban
areas these women were from high-caste families; in rural areas
they came from rich peasant households. Moved by Gandhiji’s call,
they began to see service to the nation as a sacred duty of women.
Yet, this increased public role did not necessarily mean any radical
change in the way the position of women was visualised. Gandhiji
was convinced that it was the duty of women to look after home
and hearth, be good mothers and good wives. And for a long time
the Congress was reluctant to allow women to hold any position
of authority within the organisation. It was keen only on their
symbolic presence.
3.3 The Limits of Civil Disobedience
Not all social groups were moved by the abstract concept of swaraj.
One such group was the nation’s ‘untouchables’, who from around
the 1930s had begun to call themselves dalit or oppressed. For
long the Congress had ignored the dalits, for fear of offending the
sanatanis, the conservative high-caste Hindus. But Mahatma Gandhi
declared that swaraj would not come for a hundred years if
untouchability was not eliminated. He called the ‘untouchables’ harijan,
Why did various classes and groups of Indians
participate in the Civil Disobedience
Movement?
Discuss
Fig. 9 – Women join
nationalist processions.
During the national
movement, many women,
for the first time in their
lives, moved out of their
homes on to a public arena.
Amongst the marchers you
can see many old women,
and mothers with children in
their arms.
2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
44
or the children of God, organised satyagraha to secure them entry
into temples, and access to public wells, tanks, roads and schools.
He himself cleaned toilets to dignify the work of the bhangi (the
sweepers), and persuaded upper castes to change their heart and
give up ‘the sin of untouchability’. But many dalit leaders were keen
on a different political solution to the problems of the community.
They began organising themselves, demanding reserved seats in
educational institutions, and a separate electorate that would choose
dalit members for legislative councils. Political empowerment, they
believed, would resolve the problems of their social disabilities.
Dalit participation in the Civil Disobedience Movement was
therefore limited, particularly in the Maharashtra and Nagpur region
where their organisation was quite strong.
Dr B.R. Ambedkar, who organised the dalits into the Depressed
Classes Association in 1930, clashed with Mahatma Gandhi at
the second Round Table Conference by demanding separate
electorates for dalits. When the British government conceded
Ambedkar’s demand, Gandhiji began a fast unto death. He believed
that separate electorates for dalits would slow down the process of
their integration into society. Ambedkar ultimately accepted Gandhiji’s
position and the result was the Poona Pact of September 1932.
It gave the Depressed Classes (later to be known as the Schedule
Castes) reserved seats in provincial and central legislative councils,
but they were to be voted in by the general electorate. The dalit
movement, however, continued to be apprehensive of the Congress-
led national movement.
Some of the Muslim political organisations in India were also
lukewarm in their response to the Civil Disobedience Movement.
After the decline of the Non-Cooperation-Khilafat movement, a
large section of Muslims felt alienated from the Congress. From the
mid-1920s the Congress came to be more visibly associated with
openly Hindu religious nationalist groups like the Hindu Mahasabha.
As relations between Hindus and Muslims worsened, each
community organised religious processions with militant fervour,
provoking Hindu-Muslim communal clashes and riots in various
cities. Every riot deepened the distance between the two communities.
The Congress and the Muslim League made efforts to renegotiate
an alliance, and in 1927 it appeared that such a unity could be forged.
The important differences were over the question of representation
in the future assemblies that were to be elected. Muhammad Ali
Fig. 10 – Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru
and Maulana Azad at Sevagram Ashram,
Wardha, 1935.
2020-21
45
Nationalism  in  India
Jinnah, one of the leaders of the Muslim League, was willing to give
up the demand for separate electorates, if Muslims were assured
reserved seats in the Central Assembly and representation in
proportion to population in the Muslim-dominated provinces (Bengal
and Punjab). Negotiations over the question of representation
continued but all hope of resolving the issue at the All Parties
Conference in 1928 disappeared when M.R. Jayakar of the Hindu
Mahasabha strongly opposed efforts at compromise.
When the Civil Disobedience Movement started there was thus
an atmosphere of suspicion and distrust between communities.
Alienated from the Congress, large sections of Muslims could not
respond to the call for a united struggle. Many Muslim leaders and
intellectuals expressed their concern about the status of Muslims
as a minority within India. They feared that the culture and identity
of minorities would be submerged under the domination of a
Hindu majority.
In 1930, Sir Muhammad Iqbal, as president of the Muslim League, reiterated the importance of separate electorates for
the Muslims as an important safeguard for their minority political interests. His statement is supposed to have provided the
intellectual justification for the Pakistan demand that came up in subsequent years. This is what he said:
‘I have no hesitation in declaring that if the principle that the Indian Muslim is entitled to full and free development on the
lines of his own culture and tradition in his own Indian home-lands is recognised as the basis of a permanent communal
settlement, he will be ready to stake his all for the freedom of India. The principle that each group is entitled to free
development on its own lines is not inspired by any feeling of narrow communalism … A community which is inspired by
feelings of ill-will towards other communities is low and ignoble. I entertain the highest respect for the customs, laws,
religions and social institutions of other communities. Nay, it is my duty according to the teachings of the Quran, even to
defend their places of worship, if need be. Yet I love the communal group which is the source of life and behaviour and
which has formed me what I am by giving me its religion, its literature, its thought, its culture and thereby its whole past
as a living operative factor in my present consciousness …
‘Communalism in its higher aspect, then, is indispensable to the formation of a harmonious whole in a country like India.
The units of Indian society are not territorial as in European countries … The principle of European democracy cannot be
applied to India without recognising the fact of communal groups. The Muslim demand for the creation of a Muslim India
within India is, therefore, perfectly justified…
‘The Hindu thinks that separate electorates are contrary to the spirit of true nationalism, because he understands the
word “nation” to mean a kind of universal amalgamation in which no communal entity ought to retain its private individuality.
Such a state of things, however, does not exist. India is a land of racial and religious variety. Add to this the general
economic inferiority of the Muslims, their enormous debt, especially in the Punjab, and their insufficient majorities in some
of the provinces, as at present constituted and you will begin to see clearly the meaning of our anxiety to retain separate
electorates.’
Source D
Source
Read the Source D carefully. Do you agree with Iqbal’s idea of communalism? Can you define communalism in a
different way?
Discuss
2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
46
4  The Sense of Collective Belonging
Nationalism spreads when people begin to believe that they are all
part of the same  nation, when they discover some unity that binds
them together. But how did the nation become a reality in the minds
of people? How did people belonging to different communities,
regions or language groups develop a sense of collective belonging?
This sense of collective belonging came partly through the experience
of united struggles. But there were also a variety of cultural processes
through which nationalism captured people’s imagination. History
and fiction, folklore and songs, popular prints and symbols, all played
a part in the making of nationalism.
Fig. 11 – Bal Gangadhar Tilak,
an early-twentieth-century print.
Notice how Tilak is surrounded by symbols of
unity. The sacred institutions of different faiths
(temple, church, masjid) frame the central figure.
2020-21
47
Nationalism  in  India
The identity of the nation, as you know (see Chapter 1), is most
often symbolised in a figure or image. This helps create an image
with which people can identify the nation. It was in the twentieth
century, with the growth of nationalism, that the identity of India
came to be visually associated with the image of Bharat Mata. The
image was first created by Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay. In the
1870s he wrote ‘Vande Mataram’ as a hymn to the motherland.
Later it was included in his novel Anandamath and widely sung during
the Swadeshi movement in Bengal. Moved by the Swadeshi
movement, Abanindranath Tagore painted his famous image of
Bharat Mata (see Fig. 12). In this painting Bharat Mata is portrayed
as an ascetic figure; she is calm, composed, divine and spiritual.
In subsequent years, the image of Bharat Mata acquired many
different forms, as it circulated in popular prints, and was painted
by different artists (see Fig. 14). Devotion to this mother figure came
to be seen as evidence of one’s nationalism.
Ideas of nationalism also developed through a movement to revive
Indian folklore.  In late-nineteenth-century India, nationalists began
recording folk tales sung by bards and they toured villages to gather
folk songs and legends. These tales, they believed, gave a true picture
of traditional culture that had been corrupted and damaged by
outside forces. It was essential to preserve this folk tradition  in
order to discover one’s national identity and restore a sense of pride
in one’s past. In Bengal, Rabindranath Tagore himself began collecting
ballads, nursery rhymes and myths, and led the movement for folk
Fig. 12 – Bharat Mata, Abanindranath Tagore,
1905.
Notice that the mother figure here is shown as
dispensing learning, food and clothing. The mala
in one hand emphasises her ascetic quality.
Abanindranath Tagore, like Ravi Varma before
him, tried to develop a style of painting that
could be seen as truly Indian.
Fig. 13 – Jawaharlal Nehru, a popular print.
Nehru is here shown holding the image of Bharat Mata and the map of India
close to his heart. In a lot of popular prints, nationalist leaders are shown
offering their heads to Bharat Mata. The idea of sacrifice for the mother was
powerful within popular imagination.
2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
48
‘In earlier times, foreign travellers in India marvelled at the courage, truthfulness and modesty of the people of the Arya
vamsa; now they remark mainly on the absence of those qualities. In those days Hindus would set out on conquest and
hoist their flags in Tartar, China and other countries; now a few soldiers from a tiny island far away are lording it over the
land of India.’
Tarinicharan Chattopadhyay, Bharatbarsher Itihas (The History of Bharatbarsh),  vol. 1, 1858.
Source E
Source
revival. In Madras, Natesa Sastri published a massive four-volume
collection of Tamil folk tales, The Folklore of  Southern India. He believed
that folklore was national literature; it was ‘the most trustworthy
manifestation of people’s real thoughts and characteristics’.
As the national movement developed, nationalist leaders became
more and more aware of such icons and symbols in unifying people
and inspiring in them a feeling of nationalism. During the Swadeshi
movement in Bengal, a tricolour flag (red, green and yellow) was
designed. It had eight lotuses representing eight provinces of British
India, and a crescent moon, representing Hindus and Muslims. By
1921, Gandhiji had designed the Swaraj flag. It was again a tricolour
(red, green and white) and had a spinning wheel in the centre,
representing the Gandhian ideal of self-help. Carrying the flag,
holding it aloft, during marches became a symbol of defiance.
Another means of creating a feeling of nationalism was through
reinterpretation of history. By the end of the nineteenth century
many Indians began feeling that to instill a sense of pride in the
nation, Indian history had to be thought about differently. The British
saw Indians as backward and primitive, incapable of governing
themselves. In response, Indians began looking into the past to
discover India’s great achievements. They wrote about the glorious
developments in ancient times when art and architecture, science
and mathematics, religion and culture, law and philosophy, crafts
and trade had flourished. This glorious time, in their view, was
followed by a history of decline, when India was colonised. These
nationalist histories urged the readers to take pride in India’s great
achievements in the past and struggle to change the miserable
conditions of life under British rule.
These efforts to unify people were not without problems. When the
past being glorified was Hindu, when the images celebrated were
drawn from Hindu iconography, then people of other communities
felt left out.
Fig. 14a – Bharat Mata.
This figure of Bharat Mata is a contrast to the
one painted by Abanindranath Tagore. Here she
is shown with a trishul, standing  beside a lion
and an elephant – both symbols of power and
authority.
Look at Figs. 12 and 14. Do you think these
images will appeal to all castes and communities?
Explain your views briefly.
Activity
2020-21
49
Nationalism  in  India
Conclusion
A growing anger against the colonial government was thus
bringing together various groups and classes of Indians into a
common struggle for freedom in the first half of the twentieth
century. The Congress under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi
tried to channel people’s grievances into organised movements
for independence. Through such movements the nationalists
tried to forge a national unity. But as we have seen, diverse groups
and classes participated in these movements with varied aspirations
and expectations. As their
grievances were wide-ranging,
freedom from colonial rule also
meant different things to
different people. The Congress
continuously attempted to
resolve differences, and ensure
that the demands of one group
did not alienate another. This is
precisely why the unity within
the movement often broke down.
The high points of Congress
activity and nationalist unity
were followed by phases of
disunity and inner conflict
between groups.
In other words, what was emerging was a nation with many
voices wanting freedom from colonial rule.
Quit India Movement
The failure of the Cripps Mission and the effects of World War II created widespread discontentment in India. This
led Gandhiji to launch a movement calling for complete withdrawal of the British from India. The Congress Working
Committee, in its meeting in Wardha on 14 July 1942, passed the historic ‘Quit India’ resolution demanding the
immediate transfer of power to Indians and quit India. On 8 August 1942 in Bombay, the All India Congress Committee
endorsed the resolution which called for a non-violent mass struggle on the widest possible scale throughout the
country. It was on this occasion that Gandhiji delivered the famous ‘Do or Die’ speech. The call for ‘Quit India’ almost
brought the state machinery to a standstill in large parts of the country as people voluntarily threw themselves into
the thick of the movement. People observed hartals, and demonstrations and processions were accompanied by
national songs and slogans. The movement was truly a mass movement which brought into its ambit thousands of
ordinary people, namely students, workers and peasants. It also saw the active participation of leaders, namely,
Jayprakash Narayan, Aruna Asaf Ali and Ram Manohar Lohia and many women such as Matangini Hazra in Bengal,
Kanaklata Barua in Assam and Rama Devi in Odisha. The British responded with much force, yet it took more than a
year to suppress the movement.
Fig. 14b
Women’s procession in Bombay during the Quit
India Movement
2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
50
Discuss
Project
1.
List all the different social groups which joined the Non-Cooperation Movement of 1921.
Then choose any three and write about their hopes and struggles to show why they
joined the movement.
2.
Discuss the Salt March to make clear why it was an effective symbol of resistance
against colonialism.
3.
Imagine you are a woman participating in the Civil Disobedience Movement. Explain
what the experience meant to your life.
4.
Why did political leaders differ sharply over the question of separate electorates?
Find out about the anti-colonial movement in Indo-China. Compare and contrast India’s national
movement with the ways in which Indo-China became independent.
Discuss
Write in brief
1.
Explain:
a) Why growth of nationalism in the colonies is linked to an anti-colonial movement.
b) How the First World War helped in the growth of the National Movement in India.
c) Why Indians were outraged by the Rowlatt Act.
d) Why Gandhiji decided to withdraw the Non-Cooperation Movement.
2.
What is meant by the idea of satyagraha?
3.
Write a newspaper report on:
a) The Jallianwala Bagh massacre
b) The Simon Commission
4.
Compare the images of Bharat Mata in this chapter with the image of Germania
in Chapter 1.
Write in brief
Project
2020-21

html format
from operator import itemgetter
import fitz
import json


def fonts(doc, granularity=False):
    """Extracts fonts and their usage in PDF documents.
    :param doc: PDF document to iterate through
    :type doc: <class 'fitz.fitz.Document'>
    :param granularity: also use 'font', 'flags' and 'color' to discriminate text
    :type granularity: bool
    :rtype: [(font_size, count), (font_size, count}], dict
    :return: most used fonts sorted by count, font style information
    """
    styles = {}
    font_counts = {}

    for page in doc:
        blocks = page.getText("dict")["blocks"]
        for b in blocks:  # iterate through the text blocks
            if b['type'] == 0:  # block contains text
                for l in b["lines"]:  # iterate through the text lines
                    for s in l["spans"]:  # iterate through the text spans
                        if granularity:
                            identifier = "{0}_{1}_{2}_{3}".format(s['size'], s['flags'], s['font'], s['color'])
                            styles[identifier] = {'size': s['size'], 'flags': s['flags'], 'font': s['font'],
                                                  'color': s['color']}
                        else:
                            identifier = "{0}".format(s['size'])
                            styles[identifier] = {'size': s['size'], 'font': s['font']}

                        font_counts[identifier] = font_counts.get(identifier, 0) + 1  # count the fonts usage

    font_counts = sorted(font_counts.items(), key=itemgetter(1), reverse=True)

    if len(font_counts) < 1:
        raise ValueError("Zero discriminating fonts found!")

    return font_counts, styles


def font_tags(font_counts, styles):
    """Returns dictionary with font sizes as keys and tags as value.
    :param font_counts: (font_size, count) for all fonts occuring in document
    :type font_counts: list
    :param styles: all styles found in the document
    :type styles: dict
    :rtype: dict
    :return: all element tags based on font-sizes
    """
    p_style = styles[font_counts[0][0]]  # get style for most used font by count (paragraph)
    p_size = p_style['size']  # get the paragraph's size

    # sorting the font sizes high to low, so that we can append the right integer to each tag
    font_sizes = []
    for (font_size, count) in font_counts:
        font_sizes.append(float(font_size))
    font_sizes.sort(reverse=True)

    # aggregating the tags for each font size
    idx = 0
    size_tag = {}
    for size in font_sizes:
        idx += 1
        if size == p_size:
            idx = 0
            size_tag[size] = '<p>'
        if size > p_size:
            size_tag[size] = '<h{0}>'.format(idx)
        elif size < p_size:
            size_tag[size] = '<s{0}>'.format(idx)

    return size_tag


def headers_para(doc, size_tag):
    """Scrapes headers & paragraphs from PDF and return texts with element tags.
    :param doc: PDF document to iterate through
    :type doc: <class 'fitz.fitz.Document'>
    :param size_tag: textual element tags for each size
    :type size_tag: dict
    :rtype: list
    :return: texts with pre-prended element tags
    """
    header_para = []  # list with headers and paragraphs
    first = True  # boolean operator for first header
    previous_s = {}  # previous span

    for page in doc:
        blocks = page.getText("dict")["blocks"]
        for b in blocks:  # iterate through the text blocks
            if b['type'] == 0:  # this block contains text

                # REMEMBER: multiple fonts and sizes are possible IN one block

                block_string = ""  # text found in block
                for l in b["lines"]:  # iterate through the text lines
                    for s in l["spans"]:  # iterate through the text spans
                        if s['text'].strip():  # removing whitespaces:
                            if first:
                                previous_s = s
                                first = False
                                block_string = size_tag[s['size']] + s['text']
                            else:
                                if s['size'] == previous_s['size']:

                                    if block_string and all((c == "|") for c in block_string):
                                        # block_string only contains pipes
                                        block_string = size_tag[s['size']] + s['text']
                                    if block_string == "":
                                        # new block has started, so append size tag
                                        block_string = size_tag[s['size']] + s['text']
                                    else:  # in the same block, so concatenate strings
                                        block_string += " " + s['text']

                                else:
                                    header_para.append(block_string)
                                    block_string = size_tag[s['size']] + s['text']

                                previous_s = s

                    # new block started, indicating with a pipe
                    block_string += "|"

                header_para.append(block_string)

    return header_para


def main():

    document = '/content/jess302.pdf'
    doc = fitz.open(document)

    font_counts, styles = fonts(doc, granularity=False)

    size_tag = font_tags(font_counts, styles)

    elements = headers_para(doc, size_tag)

    with open("/content/doc.json", 'w') as json_out:
        json.dump(elements, json_out)


if __name__ == '__main__':
    main()
import json
  
# Opening JSON file
f = open('/content/doc.json',)
  
# returns JSON object as 
# a dictionary
data = json.load(f)
  
# Iterating through the json
# list
for i in data:
    print(i)
  
# Closing file
f.close()
!pip install pdfminer
!pip install pdfminer.high_level
from pdfminer.high_level import extract_pages
from pdfminer.layout import LTTextContainer, LTChar,LTLine,LAParams
import os
path=r'/content/jess302.pdf'
os.chdir(path)
Extract_Data=[]
for PDF_file in os.listdir():
    if PDF_file.endswith('.pdf'):
       for page_layout in extract_pages(PDF_file):
            for element in page_layout:
                if isinstance(element, LTTextContainer):
                    for text_line in element:
                        for character in text_line:
                            if isinstance(character, LTChar):
                                Font_size=character.size
                    Extract_Data.append([Font_size,(element.get_text())])
Sentence Splitting
nltk
pip install transformers
Requirement already satisfied: transformers in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (4.9.1)
Requirement already satisfied: requests in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (2.26.0)
Requirement already satisfied: filelock in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (3.0.12)
Requirement already satisfied: regex!=2019.12.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (2021.8.3)
Requirement already satisfied: packaging in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (21.0)
Requirement already satisfied: tokenizers<0.11,>=0.10.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (0.10.3)
Requirement already satisfied: importlib-metadata in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (4.6.3)
Requirement already satisfied: tqdm>=4.27 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (4.62.0)
Requirement already satisfied: numpy>=1.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (1.21.1)
Requirement already satisfied: sacremoses in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (0.0.45)
Requirement already satisfied: pyyaml>=5.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (5.4.1)
Requirement already satisfied: huggingface-hub==0.0.12 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (0.0.12)
Requirement already satisfied: typing-extensions in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from huggingface-hub==0.0.12->transformers) (3.10.0.0)
Requirement already satisfied: pyparsing>=2.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from packaging->transformers) (2.4.7)
Requirement already satisfied: zipp>=0.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from importlib-metadata->transformers) (3.5.0)
Requirement already satisfied: certifi>=2017.4.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers) (2021.5.30)
Requirement already satisfied: urllib3<1.27,>=1.21.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers) (1.26.6)
Requirement already satisfied: idna<4,>=2.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers) (3.2)
Requirement already satisfied: charset-normalizer~=2.0.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers) (2.0.4)
Requirement already satisfied: joblib in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sacremoses->transformers) (1.0.1)
Requirement already satisfied: click in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sacremoses->transformers) (7.1.2)
Requirement already satisfied: six in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sacremoses->transformers) (1.16.0)
import nltk
nltk.download('punkt')
[nltk_data] Downloading package punkt to /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]   Package punkt is already up-to-date!
True
#print(text1)
stop=0
for i in text:
  if(i=='.'):
    stop=stop+1
print(stop)
492
from nltk.tokenize import sent_tokenize
list=[]
count=0
list=sent_tokenize(text)
for i in list:
  count=count+1
  print(i,'\n')
print(count)
spacy
!pip install spacy
from __future__ import unicode_literals, print_function
from spacy.lang.en import English # updated

raw_text = 'Hello, world. Here are two sentences.'
nlp = English()
nlp.add_pipe(nlp.create_pipe('sentencizer')) # updated
doc = nlp(text)
sentences = [sent.string.strip() for sent in doc.sents]
for i in sentences:
  print(i,"\n")
print(len(sentences))
Requirement already satisfied: spacy in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (2.1.3)
Requirement already satisfied: requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (2.26.0)
Requirement already satisfied: plac<1.0.0,>=0.9.6 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (0.9.6)
Requirement already satisfied: thinc<7.1.0,>=7.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (7.0.8)
Requirement already satisfied: cymem<2.1.0,>=2.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (2.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: wasabi<1.1.0,>=0.2.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (0.8.2)
Requirement already satisfied: jsonschema<3.0.0,>=2.6.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (2.6.0)
Requirement already satisfied: murmurhash<1.1.0,>=0.28.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (1.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: numpy>=1.15.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (1.21.1)
Requirement already satisfied: srsly<1.1.0,>=0.0.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (1.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: blis<0.3.0,>=0.2.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (0.2.4)
Requirement already satisfied: preshed<2.1.0,>=2.0.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (2.0.1)
Requirement already satisfied: idna<4,>=2.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy) (3.2)
Requirement already satisfied: charset-normalizer~=2.0.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy) (2.0.4)
Requirement already satisfied: certifi>=2017.4.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy) (2021.5.30)
Requirement already satisfied: urllib3<1.27,>=1.21.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy) (1.26.6)
Requirement already satisfied: tqdm<5.0.0,>=4.10.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from thinc<7.1.0,>=7.0.2->spacy) (4.62.0)
29
Nationalism  in  India
As you have seen, modern nationalism in Europe came to be
associated with the formation of nation-states. 

It also meant a change
in people’s understanding of who they were, and what defined their
identity and sense of belonging. 

New symbols and icons, new songs
and ideas forged new links and redefined the boundaries of
communities. 

In most countries the making of this new national
identity was a long process. 

How did this consciousness emerge
in India? 

In India and as in  many other colonies, the growth of modern
nationalism is intimately connected to the anti-colonial movement. 

People began discovering their unity in the process of their struggle
with colonialism. 

The sense of being oppressed under colonialism
provided a shared bond that tied many different groups together. 

But each class and group felt the effects of colonialism differently,
their experiences were varied, and their notions of freedom were
not always the same. 

The Congress under Mahatma Gandhi tried
to forge these groups together within one movement. 

But the unity
did not emerge without conflict. 

In an earlier textbook you have read about the growth of nationalism
in India up to the first decade of the twentieth century. 

In this chapter
we will pick up the story from the 1920s and study the Non-
Cooperation and Civil Disobedience Movements. 

We will explore
how the Congress sought to develop the national movement, how
different social groups participated in the movement, and how
nationalism captured the imagination of people. 

Nationalism  in  India
Chapter II
Nationalism in India
Fig. 

1 – 6 April 1919. 

Mass processions on
the streets became a
common feature during
the national movement. 

2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
30
1  The First World War, Khilafat and Non-Cooperation
In the years after 1919, we see the national movement spreading to
new areas, incorporating new social groups, and developing new
modes of struggle. 

How do we understand these developments? 

What implications did they have? 

First of all, the war created a new economic and political situation. 

It led to a huge increase in defence expenditure which was financed
by war loans and increasing taxes: customs duties were raised and
income tax introduced. 

Through the war years prices increased –
doubling between 1913 and 1918 –  leading to extreme hardship
for the common people. 

Villages were called upon to supply soldiers,
and the forced recruitment in rural areas caused widespread anger. 

Then in 1918-19 and 1920-21, crops failed in many parts of India,
resulting in acute shortages of food. 

This was accompanied by an
influenza epidemic. 

According to the census of 1921, 12 to 13 million
people perished as a result of famines and  the epidemic. 

People hoped that their hardships would end after the war was
over. 

But that did not happen. 

At this stage a new leader appeared and suggested a new mode
of struggle. 

1.1 The Idea of Satyagraha
Mahatma Gandhi returned to India in January 1915. 

As you know,
he had come from South Africa where he had successfully fought
New words
Forced recruitment – A process by which the
colonial state forced people to join the army
Fig. 

2 – Indian workers in South
Africa march through Volksrust, 6
November 1913. 

Mahatma Gandhi was leading the
workers from Newcastle to
Transvaal. 

When the marchers were
stopped and Gandhiji arrested,
thousands of more workers joined
the satyagraha against racist laws
that denied rights  to non-whites. 

2020-21
31
Nationalism  in  India
the racist regime with a novel method of mass agitation, which he
called satyagraha. 

The idea of satyagraha emphasised the power of
truth and the need to search for truth. 

It suggested that if the cause
was true, if the struggle was against injustice, then physical force was
not necessary to fight the oppressor. 

Without seeking vengeance or
being aggressive, a satyagrahi could win the battle through non-
violence. 

This could be done by  appealing to the conscience of the
oppressor. 

People – including the oppressors – had to be persuaded
to see the truth, instead of being forced to accept truth through the
use of violence. 

By this struggle, truth was bound to ultimately
triumph. 

Mahatma Gandhi believed that this dharma of non-violence
could unite all Indians. 

After arriving in India, Mahatma Gandhi successfully organised
satyagraha movements in various places. 

In 1917 he travelled to
Champaran in  Bihar to inspire the peasants to struggle against the
oppressive plantation system. 

Then in 1917,  he organised a satyagraha
to support the peasants of the Kheda district of Gujarat. 

Affected
by crop failure and a plague epidemic, the peasants of Kheda could
not pay the revenue, and were demanding that revenue collection be
relaxed. 

In 1918, Mahatma Gandhi went to Ahmedabad to organise
a satyagraha movement amongst cotton mill workers. 

1.2 The Rowlatt Act
Emboldened with this success, Gandhiji in 1919 decided to launch a
nationwide satyagraha against the proposed Rowlatt Act (1919). 

This
Act had been hurriedly passed through the Imperial Legislative
Council despite the united opposition of the Indian members. 

It
gave the government enormous powers to repress political activities,
and allowed detention of political prisoners without trial for two
years. 

Mahatma Gandhi wanted non-violent civil disobedience against
such unjust laws, which would start with a hartal on 6 April. 

Rallies were organised in various cities, workers went on strike in
railway workshops, and shops closed down. 

Alarmed by the popular
upsurge, and scared that lines of communication such as the railways
and telegraph would be disrupted, the British administration decided
to clamp down on nationalists. 

Local leaders were picked up from
Amritsar, and Mahatma Gandhi was barred from entering Delhi. 

On 10 April, the police in Amritsar fired upon a peaceful procession,
provoking widespread attacks on banks, post offices and railway
stations. 

Martial law was imposed and General Dyer took command. 

Mahatma Gandhi on Satyagraha
‘It is said of “passive resistance” that it is the
weapon of the weak, but the power which is
the subject of this article can be used only
by the strong. 

This power is not passive
resistance; indeed it calls for intense activity. 

The
movement in South Africa was not passive
but active  …
‘ Satyagraha is not physical force. 

A satyagrahi
does not inflict pain on the adversary; he does
not seek his destruction … In the use of
satyagraha, there is no ill-will whatever. 

‘ Satyagraha is pure soul-force. 

Truth is the very
substance of the soul. 

That is why this force is
called satyagraha. 

The soul is informed with
knowledge. 

In it burns the flame of love. … 

Non-
violence is the supreme dharma …
‘It is certain that India cannot rival Britain or
Europe in force of arms. 

The British worship the
war-god and they can all of them become, as
they are becoming, bearers of arms. 

The
hundreds of millions in India can never carry arms. 

They have made the religion of non-violence their
own ...’
Source
Source A
Read the text carefully. 

What did Mahatma
Gandhi mean when he said satyagraha is
active resistance? 

Activity
2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
32
On 13 April the infamous Jallianwalla Bagh incident took place. 

On
that day a large crowd gathered in the enclosed ground of Jallianwalla
Bagh. 

Some came to protest against the government’s new repressive
measures. 

Others had come to attend the annual Baisakhi fair. 

Being
from outside the city, many villagers were unaware of the martial
law that had been imposed. 

Dyer entered the area, blocked the exit
points, and opened fire on the crowd, killing hundreds. 

His object,
as he declared later, was to ‘produce a moral effect’, to create in the
minds of satyagrahis a feeling of terror and awe. 

As the news of Jallianwalla Bagh spread, crowds took to the streets
in many north Indian towns. 

There were strikes, clashes with the
police and attacks on government buildings. 

The government
responded with brutal repression, seeking to humiliate and terrorise
people: satyagrahis were forced to rub their noses on the ground,
crawl on the streets, and do salaam (salute) to all sahibs; people were
flogged and villages (around Gujranwala in Punjab, now in Pakistan)
were bombed. 

Seeing violence spread, Mahatma Gandhi called off
the movement. 

While the Rowlatt satyagraha had been a widespread movement, it
was still limited mostly to cities and towns. 

Mahatma Gandhi now felt
the need to launch a more broad-based movement in India. 

But he
was certain that no such movement could be organised without
bringing the Hindus and Muslims closer together. 

One way of doing
this, he felt, was to take up the Khilafat issue. 

The First World War had
ended with the defeat of Ottoman Turkey. 

And there were rumours
that a harsh peace treaty was going to be imposed on the Ottoman
emperor –  the spiritual head of the Islamic world (the Khalifa). 

To
defend the Khalifa’s temporal powers, a Khilafat Committee was
formed in Bombay in March 1919. 

A young generation of Muslim
leaders like the brothers Muhammad Ali and Shaukat Ali, began
discussing with Mahatma Gandhi about the possibility of a united
mass action on the issue. 

Gandhiji saw this as an opportunity to bring
Muslims under the umbrella of a unified national movement. 

At the
Calcutta session of the Congress in September 1920, he convinced
other leaders of the need to start a non-cooperation movement in
support of Khilafat as well as for swaraj. 

1.3  Why Non-cooperation? 

In his famous book Hind Swaraj (1909) Mahatma Gandhi declared
that British rule was established in India with the cooperation of
Fig. 

3 – General Dyer’s ‘crawling orders’ being
administered by British soldiers, Amritsar,
Punjab, 1919. 

2020-21
33
Nationalism  in  India
New words
Boycott – The refusal to deal and associate with
people, or participate in activities, or buy and
use things; usually a form of protest
Indians, and had survived only because of this cooperation. 

If Indians
refused to cooperate, British rule in India would collapse within a
year, and swaraj would come. 

How could non-cooperation become a movement? 

Gandhiji
proposed that the movement should unfold in stages. 

It should begin
with the surrender of titles that the government awarded, and a
boycott of civil services, army, police, courts and legislative councils,
schools, and foreign goods. 

Then, in case the government used
repression, a full civil disobedience campaign would be launched. 

Through the summer of 1920 Mahatma Gandhi and Shaukat Ali
toured extensively, mobilising popular support for the movement. 

Many within the Congress were, however, concerned about the
proposals. 

They were reluctant to boycott the council elections
scheduled for November 1920, and they feared that the movement
might lead to popular violence. 

In the months between September
and December there was an intense tussle within the Congress. 

For a
while there seemed no meeting point between the supporters and
the opponents of the movement. 

Finally, at the Congress session at
Nagpur in December 1920, a compromise was worked out and
the Non-Cooperation programme was adopted. 

How did the movement unfold? 

Who participated in it? 

How did
different social groups conceive of the idea of Non-Cooperation? 

Fig. 

4 – The boycott of foreign
cloth, July 1922. 

Foreign cloth was seen as the
symbol of Western economic
and cultural domination. 

2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
34
2  Differing Strands within the Movement
The Non-Cooperation-Khilafat Movement began in January 1921. 

Various social groups participated in this movement, each with its
own specific aspiration. 

All of them responded to the call of Swaraj,
but the term meant different things to different people. 

2.1 The Movement in the Towns
The movement started with middle-class participation in the cities. 

Thousands of students left government-controlled schools and
colleges, headmasters and teachers resigned, and lawyers gave up
their legal practices. 

The council elections were boycotted in most
provinces except Madras, where the Justice Party, the party of the
non-Brahmans, felt that entering the council was one way of gaining
some power – something that usually only Brahmans had access to. 

The effects of non-cooperation on the economic front were more
dramatic. 

Foreign goods were boycotted, liquor shops picketed,
and foreign cloth burnt in huge bonfires. 

The import of foreign
cloth halved between 1921 and 1922, its value dropping from
Rs 102 crore to Rs 57 crore. 

In many places merchants and traders
refused to trade in foreign goods or finance foreign trade. 

As the
boycott movement spread, and people began discarding imported
clothes and wearing only Indian ones, production of Indian textile
mills and handlooms went up. 

But this movement in the cities gradually slowed down for a variety
of reasons. 

Khadi cloth was often more expensive than mass-
produced mill cloth and poor people could not afford to buy it. 

How then could they boycott mill cloth for too long? 

Similarly the
boycott of British institutions posed a problem. 

For the movement
to be successful, alternative Indian institutions had to be set up
so that they could be used in place of the British ones. 

These were
slow to come up. 

So students and teachers began trickling
back to government schools and lawyers joined back work in
government courts. 

2.2 Rebellion in the Countryside
From the cities, the Non-Cooperation Movement spread to the
countryside. 

It drew into its fold the struggles of peasants and tribals
New words
Picket – A form of demonstration or protest
by which people block the entrance to a shop,
factory or office
The year is 1921. 

You are a student in a
government-controlled school. 

Design a
poster urging school students to answer
Gandhiji’s call to join the Non-Cooperation
Movement. 

Activity
2020-21
35
Nationalism  in  India
which were developing in different parts of India in the years
after the war. 

In Awadh, peasants were led by Baba Ramchandra – a sanyasi who
had earlier been to Fiji as an indentured labourer. 

The movement
here was against talukdars and landlords who demanded from
peasants exorbitantly high rents and a variety of other cesses. 

Peasants
had to do begar and work at landlords’ farms without any payment. 

As tenants they had no security of tenure, being regularly evicted so
that they could acquire no right over the leased land. 

The peasant
movement demanded reduction of revenue, abolition of begar, and
social boycott of oppressive landlords. 

In many places nai – dhobi
bandhs were organised by panchayats to deprive landlords of the
services of even barbers and washermen. 

In June 1920, Jawaharlal
Nehru began going around the villages in Awadh, talking to the
villagers, and trying to understand their grievances. 

By October, the
Oudh Kisan Sabha was set up headed by Jawaharlal Nehru, Baba
Ramchandra and a few others. 

Within a month, over 300 branches
had been set up in the villages around the region. 

So when the Non-
Cooperation Movement began the following year, the effort of the
Congress was to integrate the Awadh peasant struggle into the wider
struggle. 

The peasant movement, however, developed in forms that
the Congress leadership was unhappy with. 

As the movement spread
in 1921, the houses of talukdars and merchants were attacked,
bazaars were looted, and grain hoards were taken over. 

In many
places local leaders told peasants that Gandhiji had declared that
no taxes were to be paid and land was to be redistributed among
the poor. 

The name of the Mahatma was being invoked to sanction
all action and aspirations. 

New words
Begar – Labour that villagers were forced to
contribute without any payment
If you were a peasant in Uttar Pradesh in 1920,
how would you have responded to Gandhiji’s
call for Swaraj? 

Give reasons for your response. 

Activity
On 6 January 1921, the police in United Provinces fired at peasants near Rae Bareli. 

Jawaharlal Nehru wanted to go to
the place of firing, but was stopped by the police. 

Agitated and angry, Nehru addressed the peasants who gathered
around him. 

This is how he later described the meeting:
‘They behaved as brave men, calm and unruffled in the face of danger. 

I do not know how they felt but I know what
my feelings were. 

For a moment my blood was up, non-violence was almost forgotten – but for a moment only. 

The
thought of the great leader, who by God’s goodness has been sent to lead us to victory, came to me, and I saw the
kisans seated and standing near me, less excited, more peaceful than I was – and the moment of weakness passed, I
spoke to them in all humility on non-violence – I needed the lesson more than they – and they heeded me and
peacefully dispersed.’ 

Quoted in Sarvapalli Gopal, Jawaharlal Nehru: A Biography, Vol. 

I.
Source
Source B
In 1928, Vallabhbhai Patel led the peasant
movement in Bardoli, a taluka in Gujarat, against
enhancement of land revenue. 

Known as the
Bardoli Satyagraha, this movement was a success
under the able leadership of Vallabhbhai Patel. 

The struggle was widely publicised and
generated immense sympathy in many parts
of India. 

2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
36
Tribal peasants interpreted the message of Mahatma Gandhi and
the idea of swaraj in yet another way. 

In the Gudem Hills of Andhra
Pradesh, for instance, a militant guerrilla movement spread in
the early 1920s –  not a form of struggle that the Congress could
approve. 

Here, as in other forest regions, the colonial government
had closed large forest areas, preventing people from entering
the forests to graze their cattle, or to collect fuelwood and fruits. 

This enraged the hill people. 

Not only were their livelihoods
affected but they felt that their traditional rights were being denied. 

When the government began forcing them to contribute begar
for road building, the hill people revolted. 

The person who came
to lead them was an interesting figure. 

Alluri Sitaram Raju claimed
that he had a variety of special powers: he could make correct
astrological predictions and heal people, and he could survive
even bullet shots. 

Captivated by Raju, the rebels proclaimed that
he was an incarnation of God. 

Raju talked of the greatness of
Mahatma Gandhi, said he was inspired by the Non-Cooperation
Movement, and persuaded people to wear khadi and give up drinking. 

But at the same time he asserted that India could be liberated only
by the use of force, not non-violence. 

The Gudem rebels attacked
police stations, attempted to kill British officials and carried on
guerrilla warfare for achieving swaraj. 

Raju was captured and
executed in 1924, and over time became a folk hero. 

2.3 Swaraj in the Plantations
Workers too had their own understanding of Mahatma Gandhi
and the notion of swaraj. 

For plantation workers in Assam, freedom
meant the right to move freely in and out of the confined space in
which they were enclosed, and it meant retaining a link with the
village from which they had come. 

Under the Inland Emigration
Act of 1859, plantation workers were not permitted to leave the
tea gardens without permission, and in fact they were rarely given
such permission. 

When they heard of the Non-Cooperation
Movement, thousands of workers defied the authorities, left the
plantations and headed home. 

They believed that Gandhi Raj was
coming and everyone would be given land in their own villages. 

They, however, never reached their destination. 

Stranded on the way
by a railway and steamer strike, they were caught by the police and
brutally beaten up. 

Find out about other participants in the
National Movement who were captured and
put to death by the British. 

Can you think of a
similar example from the national movement
in Indo-China (Chapter 2)? 

Activity
2020-21
37
Nationalism  in  India
The visions of these movements were not defined by the Congress
programme. 

They interpreted the term swaraj in their own ways,
imagining it to be a time when all suffering and all troubles would
be over. 

Yet, when the tribals chanted Gandhiji’s name and raised
slogans demanding ‘Swatantra Bharat’, they were also emotionally
relating to an all-India agitation. 

When they acted in the name of
Mahatma Gandhi, or linked their movement to that of the Congress,
they were identifying with a movement which went beyond the limits
of their immediate locality. 

Fig. 

5 – Chauri Chaura, 1922. 

At Chauri Chaura in Gorakhpur, a peaceful demonstration in a bazaar turned into a
violent clash with the police. 

Hearing of the incident, Mahatma Gandhi called a halt
to the Non-Cooperation Movement. 

2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
38
3  Towards Civil Disobedience
In February 1922, Mahatma Gandhi decided to withdraw the
Non-Cooperation Movement. 

He felt the movement was turning
violent in many places and satyagrahis needed to be properly trained
before they would be ready for mass struggles. 

Within the Congress,
some leaders were by now tired of mass struggles and wanted to
participate in elections to the provincial councils that had been set
up by the Government of India Act of 1919. 

They felt that it was
important to oppose British policies within the councils, argue for
reform and also demonstrate that these councils were not truly
democratic. 

C. R. Das and Motilal Nehru formed the Swaraj Party
within the Congress to argue for a return to council politics. 

But
younger leaders like Jawaharlal Nehru and Subhas Chandra Bose
pressed for more radical mass agitation and for full independence. 

In such a situation of internal debate and dissension two factors
again shaped Indian politics towards the late 1920s. 

The first was
the effect of the worldwide economic depression. 

Agricultural prices
began to fall from 1926 and collapsed after 1930. 

As the demand
for agricultural goods fell and exports declined, peasants found it
difficult to sell their harvests and pay their revenue. 

By 1930, the
countryside was in turmoil. 

Against this background the new Tory government in Britain
constituted a Statutory Commission under Sir John Simon. 

Set up
in response to the nationalist movement, the
commission was to look into the functioning of
the constitutional system in India and suggest
changes. 

The problem was that the commission
did not have a single Indian member. 

They were
all British. 

When the Simon Commission arrived in India in
1928, it was greeted with the slogan ‘Go back
Simon’. 

All parties, including the Congress and the
Muslim League, participated in the demonstrations. 

In an effort to win them over, the viceroy, Lord
Irwin, announced in October 1929, a vague offer
of ‘dominion status’ for India in an unspecified
future, and a Round Table Conference to discuss a
future constitution. 

This did not satisfy the Congress
leaders. 

The radicals within the Congress, led by
Fig. 

6 – Meeting of Congress leaders  at Allahabad, 1931. 

Apart from Mahatma Gandhi, you can see Sardar Vallabhbhai
Patel (extreme left), Jawaharlal Nehru (extreme right) and Subhas
Chandra Bose (fifth from right). 

Lala Lajpat Rai was assaulted by the British police
during a peaceful demonstration against the
Simon Commission. 

He succumbed to injuries
that were inflicted on him during the
demonstration. 

2020-21
39
Nationalism  in  India
Jawaharlal Nehru and Subhas Chandra Bose, became more assertive. 

The liberals and moderates, who were proposing a constitutional
system within the framework of British dominion, gradually lost
their influence. 

In December 1929, under the presidency of Jawaharlal
Nehru, the Lahore Congress formalised the demand of ‘Purna
Swaraj’ or full independence for India. 

It was declared that 26 January
1930, would be celebrated as the Independence Day when people
were to take a pledge to struggle for complete independence. 

But
the celebrations attracted very little attention. 

So Mahatma Gandhi
had to find a way to relate this abstract idea of freedom to more
concrete issues of everyday life. 

3.1 The Salt March and the Civil Disobedience Movement
Mahatma Gandhi found in salt a powerful symbol that could unite
the nation. 

On 31 January 1930, he sent a letter to Viceroy Irwin
stating eleven demands. 

Some of these were of general interest;
others were specific demands of different classes, from industrialists
to peasants. 

The idea was to make the demands wide-ranging, so
that all classes within Indian society could identify with them and
everyone could be brought together in a united campaign. 

The most
stirring of all was the demand to abolish the salt tax. 

Salt was
something consumed by the rich and the poor alike, and it was one
of the most essential items of food. 

The tax on salt and the
government monopoly over its production, Mahatma Gandhi
declared, revealed the most oppressive face of British rule. 

Mahatma Gandhi’s letter was, in a way, an ultimatum. 

If the
demands were not fulfilled by 11 March, the letter stated, the
Congress would launch a civil disobedience campaign. 

Irwin was
unwilling to negotiate. 

So Mahatma Gandhi started his famous
salt march accompanied by 78 of his trusted volunteers. 

The march
was over 240 miles, from Gandhiji’s ashram in Sabarmati to the
Gujarati coastal town of Dandi. 

The volunteers walked for 24 days,
about 10 miles a day. 

Thousands came to hear Mahatma Gandhi
wherever he stopped, and he told them what he meant by swaraj
and urged them to peacefully defy the British. 

On 6 April he reached
Dandi, and ceremonially violated the law, manufacturing salt by
boiling sea water. 

This marked the beginning of the Civil Disobedience Movement. 

How was this movement different from the Non-Cooperation
Movement? 

People were now asked not only to refuse cooperation
The Independence Day Pledge, 26 January
1930
‘We believe that it is the inalienable right of the
Indian people, as of any other people, to have
freedom and to enjoy the fruits of their toil and
have the necessities of life, so that they may
have full opportunities of growth. 

We believe
also that if any government deprives a people of
these rights and oppresses them, the people
have a further right to alter it or to abolish it. 

The British Government in India has not only
deprived the Indian people of their freedom but
has based itself on the exploitation of the masses,
and has ruined India economically, politically,
culturally, and spiritually. 

We believe, therefore,
that India must sever the British connection and
attain Purna Swaraj or Complete Independence.’ 

Source C
Source
2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
40
with the British, as they had done in 1921-22, but also to break
colonial laws. 

Thousands in different parts of the country broke
the salt law, manufactured salt and demonstrated in front of
government salt factories. 

As the movement spread, foreign cloth
was boycotted, and liquor shops were picketed. 

Peasants refused to
pay revenue and chaukidari taxes, village officials resigned, and in
many places forest people violated forest laws – going into Reserved
Forests to collect wood and graze cattle. 

Worried by the developments, the colonial government began
arresting the Congress leaders one by one. 

This led to violent clashes
in many palaces. 

When Abdul Ghaffar Khan, a devout disciple of
Mahatma Gandhi, was arrested in April 1930, angry crowds
demonstrated in the streets of Peshawar, facing armoured cars and
police firing. 

Many were killed. 

A month later, when Mahatma
Gandhi himself was arrested, industrial workers in Sholapur attacked
police posts, municipal buildings, lawcourts and railway stations –
all structures that symbolised British rule. 

A frightened government
responded with a policy of brutal repression. 

Peaceful satyagrahis
were attacked, women and children were beaten, and about 100,000
people were arrested. 

In such a situation, Mahatma Gandhi once again decided to call off
the movement and entered into a pact with Irwin on 5 March 1931. 

By this Gandhi-Irwin Pact, Gandhiji consented to participate in a
Round Table Conference (the Congress had boycotted the first
Fig. 

7 – The Dandi march. 

During the salt march Mahatma
Gandhi was accompanied by
78 volunteers. 

On the way
they were joined by thousands. 

Fig. 

8 – Police cracked down on satyagrahis,
1930. 

2020-21
41
Nationalism  in  India
Round Table Conference) in London and the government agreed to
release the political prisoners. 

In December 1931, Gandhiji went to
London for the conference, but the negotiations broke down and
he returned disappointed. 

Back in India, he discovered that the
government had begun a new cycle of repression. 

Ghaffar Khan
and Jawaharlal Nehru were both in jail, the Congress had been
declared illegal, and a series of measures had been imposed to prevent
meetings, demonstrations and boycotts. 

With great apprehension,
Mahatma Gandhi relaunched the Civil Disobedience Movement. 

For over a year, the movement continued, but by 1934 it lost
its momentum. 

3.2 How Participants saw the Movement
Let us now look at the different social groups that participated in the
Civil Disobedience Movement. 

Why did they join the movement? 

What were their ideals? 

What did swaraj mean to them? 

In the countryside, rich peasant communities – like the Patidars of
Gujarat and the Jats of Uttar Pradesh – were active in the movement. 

Being producers of commercial crops, they were very hard hit by
the trade depression and falling prices. 

As their cash income
disappeared, they found it impossible to pay the government’s revenue
demand. 

And the refusal of the government to reduce the revenue
demand led to widespread resentment. 

These rich peasants became
enthusiastic supporters of the Civil Disobedience Movement,
organising their communities, and at times forcing reluctant members,
to participate in the boycott programmes. 

For them the fight for
swaraj was a struggle against high revenues. 

But they were deeply
disappointed when the movement was called off in 1931 without
the revenue rates being revised. 

So when the movement was restarted
in 1932, many of them refused to participate. 

The poorer peasantry were not just interested in the lowering of the
revenue demand. 

Many of them were small tenants cultivating land
they had rented from landlords. 

As the Depression continued and
cash incomes dwindled, the small tenants found it difficult to pay
their rent. 

They wanted the unpaid rent to the landlord to be remitted. 

They joined a variety of radical movements, often led by Socialists
and Communists. 

Apprehensive of raising issues that might upset
the rich peasants and landlords, the Congress was unwilling to support
‘no rent’ campaigns in most places. 

So the relationship between the
poor peasants and the Congress remained uncertain. 

‘To the altar of this revolution we have
brought our youth as incense’
Many nationalists thought that the struggle
against the British could not be won through
non-violence. 

In 1928, the Hindustan Socialist
Republican Army (HSRA) was founded at a
meeting in Ferozeshah Kotla ground in Delhi. 

Amongst its leaders were Bhagat Singh, Jatin
Das and Ajoy Ghosh. 

In a series of dramatic
actions in different parts of India, the HSRA
targeted some of the symbols of British power. 

In April 1929, Bhagat Singh and Batukeswar
Dutta threw a bomb in the Legislative Assembly. 

In the same year there was an attempt to blow
up the train that Lord Irwin was travelling in. 

Bhagat Singh was 23 when he was tried and
executed by the colonial government. 

During
his trial, Bhagat Singh stated that he did not
wish to glorify ‘the cult of the bomb and pistol’
but wanted a revolution in society:
‘Revolution is the inalienable right of mankind. 

Freedom is the imprescriptible birthright of all. 

The labourer is the real sustainer of society …
To the altar of this revolution we have brought
our youth as incense, for no sacrifice is too
great for so magnificent a cause. 

We are
content. 

We await the advent of revolution. 

Inquilab Zindabad!’ 

Box 1
2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
42
What about the business classes? 

How did they relate to the Civil
Disobedience Movement? 

During the First World War, Indian
merchants and industrialists had made huge profits and become
powerful (see Chapter 5). 

Keen on expanding their business, they
now reacted against colonial policies that restricted business activities. 

They wanted protection against imports of foreign goods, and a
rupee-sterling foreign exchange ratio that would discourage imports. 

To organise business interests, they formed the Indian Industrial
and Commercial Congress in 1920 and the Federation of the Indian
Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FICCI) in 1927. 

Led by
prominent industrialists like Purshottamdas Thakurdas and
G. D. Birla, the industrialists attacked colonial control over the Indian
economy, and supported the Civil Disobedience Movement when
it was first launched. 

They gave financial assistance and refused to
buy or sell imported goods. 

Most businessmen came to see swaraj
as a time when colonial restrictions on business would no longer
exist and trade and industry would flourish without constraints. 

But
after the failure of the Round Table Conference, business groups
were no longer uniformly enthusiastic. 

They were apprehensive of
the spread of militant activities, and worried about prolonged
disruption of business, as well as of the growing influence of
socialism amongst the younger members of the Congress. 

The industrial working classes did not participate in the Civil
Disobedience Movement in large numbers, except in the Nagpur
region. 

As the industrialists came closer to the Congress, workers
stayed aloof. 

But in spite of that, some workers did participate in
the Civil Disobedience Movement, selectively adopting some of
the ideas of the Gandhian programme, like boycott of foreign
goods, as part of their own movements against low wages and
poor working conditions. 

There were strikes by railway workers in
1930 and dockworkers in 1932. 

In 1930 thousands of workers in
Chotanagpur tin mines wore Gandhi caps and participated in protest
rallies and boycott campaigns. 

But the Congress was reluctant to
include workers’ demands as part of its programme of struggle. 

It felt that this would alienate industrialists and divide the anti-
imperial forces. 

Another important feature of the Civil Disobedience Movement
was the large-scale participation of women. 

During Gandhiji’s salt
march, thousands of women came out of their homes to listen to
him. 

They participated in protest marches, manufactured salt, and
Some important dates
1918-19
Distressed UP peasants organised by Baba
Ramchandra. 

April 1919
Gandhian hartal against Rowlatt Act; Jallianwala
Bagh massacre. 

January 1921
Non-Cooperation and Khilafat movement
launched. 

February 1922
Chauri Chaura; Gandhiji withdraws Non-
Cooperation movement. 

May 1924
Alluri Sitarama Raju arrested ending a two-year
armed tribal struggle. 

December 1929
Lahore Congress; Congress adopts the demand
for ‘Purna Swaraj’. 

1930
Ambedkar establishes Depressed Classes
Association. 

March 1930
Gandhiji begins Civil Disobedience Movement by
breaking salt law at Dandi. 

March 1931
Gandhiji ends Civil Disobedience Movement. 

December 1931
Second Round Table Conference. 

1932
Civil Disobedience re-launched. 

2020-21
43
Nationalism  in  India
picketed foreign cloth and liquor shops. 

Many went to jail. 

In urban
areas these women were from high-caste families; in rural areas
they came from rich peasant households. 

Moved by Gandhiji’s call,
they began to see service to the nation as a sacred duty of women. 

Yet, this increased public role did not necessarily mean any radical
change in the way the position of women was visualised. 

Gandhiji
was convinced that it was the duty of women to look after home
and hearth, be good mothers and good wives. 

And for a long time
the Congress was reluctant to allow women to hold any position
of authority within the organisation. 

It was keen only on their
symbolic presence. 

3.3 The Limits of Civil Disobedience
Not all social groups were moved by the abstract concept of swaraj. 

One such group was the nation’s ‘untouchables’, who from around
the 1930s had begun to call themselves dalit or oppressed. 

For
long the Congress had ignored the dalits, for fear of offending the
sanatanis, the conservative high-caste Hindus. 

But Mahatma Gandhi
declared that swaraj would not come for a hundred years if
untouchability was not eliminated. 

He called the ‘untouchables’ harijan,
Why did various classes and groups of Indians
participate in the Civil Disobedience
Movement? 

Discuss
Fig. 

9 – Women join
nationalist processions. 

During the national
movement, many women,
for the first time in their
lives, moved out of their
homes on to a public arena. 

Amongst the marchers you
can see many old women,
and mothers with children in
their arms. 

2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
44
or the children of God, organised satyagraha to secure them entry
into temples, and access to public wells, tanks, roads and schools. 

He himself cleaned toilets to dignify the work of the bhangi (the
sweepers), and persuaded upper castes to change their heart and
give up ‘the sin of untouchability’. 

But many dalit leaders were keen
on a different political solution to the problems of the community. 

They began organising themselves, demanding reserved seats in
educational institutions, and a separate electorate that would choose
dalit members for legislative councils. 

Political empowerment, they
believed, would resolve the problems of their social disabilities. 

Dalit participation in the Civil Disobedience Movement was
therefore limited, particularly in the Maharashtra and Nagpur region
where their organisation was quite strong. 

Dr B.R. Ambedkar, who organised the dalits into the Depressed
Classes Association in 1930, clashed with Mahatma Gandhi at
the second Round Table Conference by demanding separate
electorates for dalits. 

When the British government conceded
Ambedkar’s demand, Gandhiji began a fast unto death. 

He believed
that separate electorates for dalits would slow down the process of
their integration into society. 

Ambedkar ultimately accepted Gandhiji’s
position and the result was the Poona Pact of September 1932. 

It gave the Depressed Classes (later to be known as the Schedule
Castes) reserved seats in provincial and central legislative councils,
but they were to be voted in by the general electorate. 

The dalit
movement, however, continued to be apprehensive of the Congress-
led national movement. 

Some of the Muslim political organisations in India were also
lukewarm in their response to the Civil Disobedience Movement. 

After the decline of the Non-Cooperation-Khilafat movement, a
large section of Muslims felt alienated from the Congress. 

From the
mid-1920s the Congress came to be more visibly associated with
openly Hindu religious nationalist groups like the Hindu Mahasabha. 

As relations between Hindus and Muslims worsened, each
community organised religious processions with militant fervour,
provoking Hindu-Muslim communal clashes and riots in various
cities. 

Every riot deepened the distance between the two communities. 

The Congress and the Muslim League made efforts to renegotiate
an alliance, and in 1927 it appeared that such a unity could be forged. 

The important differences were over the question of representation
in the future assemblies that were to be elected. 

Muhammad Ali
Fig. 

10 – Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru
and Maulana Azad at Sevagram Ashram,
Wardha, 1935. 

2020-21
45
Nationalism  in  India
Jinnah, one of the leaders of the Muslim League, was willing to give
up the demand for separate electorates, if Muslims were assured
reserved seats in the Central Assembly and representation in
proportion to population in the Muslim-dominated provinces (Bengal
and Punjab). 

Negotiations over the question of representation
continued but all hope of resolving the issue at the All Parties
Conference in 1928 disappeared when M.R. Jayakar of the Hindu
Mahasabha strongly opposed efforts at compromise. 

When the Civil Disobedience Movement started there was thus
an atmosphere of suspicion and distrust between communities. 

Alienated from the Congress, large sections of Muslims could not
respond to the call for a united struggle. 

Many Muslim leaders and
intellectuals expressed their concern about the status of Muslims
as a minority within India. 

They feared that the culture and identity
of minorities would be submerged under the domination of a
Hindu majority. 

In 1930, Sir Muhammad Iqbal, as president of the Muslim League, reiterated the importance of separate electorates for
the Muslims as an important safeguard for their minority political interests. 

His statement is supposed to have provided the
intellectual justification for the Pakistan demand that came up in subsequent years. 

This is what he said:
‘I have no hesitation in declaring that if the principle that the Indian Muslim is entitled to full and free development on the
lines of his own culture and tradition in his own Indian home-lands is recognised as the basis of a permanent communal
settlement, he will be ready to stake his all for the freedom of India. 

The principle that each group is entitled to free
development on its own lines is not inspired by any feeling of narrow communalism … A community which is inspired by
feelings of ill-will towards other communities is low and ignoble. 

I entertain the highest respect for the customs, laws,
religions and social institutions of other communities. 

Nay, it is my duty according to the teachings of the Quran, even to
defend their places of worship, if need be. 

Yet I love the communal group which is the source of life and behaviour and
which has formed me what I am by giving me its religion, its literature, its thought, its culture and thereby its whole past
as a living operative factor in my present consciousness …
‘Communalism in its higher aspect, then, is indispensable to the formation of a harmonious whole in a country like India. 

The units of Indian society are not territorial as in European countries … The principle of European democracy cannot be
applied to India without recognising the fact of communal groups. 

The Muslim demand for the creation of a Muslim India
within India is, therefore, perfectly justified…
‘The Hindu thinks that separate electorates are contrary to the spirit of true nationalism, because he understands the
word “nation” to mean a kind of universal amalgamation in which no communal entity ought to retain its private individuality. 

Such a state of things, however, does not exist. 

India is a land of racial and religious variety. 

Add to this the general
economic inferiority of the Muslims, their enormous debt, especially in the Punjab, and their insufficient majorities in some
of the provinces, as at present constituted and you will begin to see clearly the meaning of our anxiety to retain separate
electorates.’ 

Source D
Source
Read the Source D carefully. 

Do you agree with Iqbal’s idea of communalism? 

Can you define communalism in a
different way? 

Discuss
2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
46
4  The Sense of Collective Belonging
Nationalism spreads when people begin to believe that they are all
part of the same  nation, when they discover some unity that binds
them together. 

But how did the nation become a reality in the minds
of people? 

How did people belonging to different communities,
regions or language groups develop a sense of collective belonging? 

This sense of collective belonging came partly through the experience
of united struggles. 

But there were also a variety of cultural processes
through which nationalism captured people’s imagination. 

History
and fiction, folklore and songs, popular prints and symbols, all played
a part in the making of nationalism. 

Fig. 

11 – Bal Gangadhar Tilak,
an early-twentieth-century print. 

Notice how Tilak is surrounded by symbols of
unity. 

The sacred institutions of different faiths
(temple, church, masjid) frame the central figure. 

2020-21
47
Nationalism  in  India
The identity of the nation, as you know (see Chapter 1), is most
often symbolised in a figure or image. 

This helps create an image
with which people can identify the nation. 

It was in the twentieth
century, with the growth of nationalism, that the identity of India
came to be visually associated with the image of Bharat Mata. 

The
image was first created by Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay. 

In the
1870s he wrote ‘Vande Mataram’ as a hymn to the motherland. 

Later it was included in his novel Anandamath and widely sung during
the Swadeshi movement in Bengal. 

Moved by the Swadeshi
movement, Abanindranath Tagore painted his famous image of
Bharat Mata (see Fig. 

12). 

In this painting Bharat Mata is portrayed
as an ascetic figure; she is calm, composed, divine and spiritual. 

In subsequent years, the image of Bharat Mata acquired many
different forms, as it circulated in popular prints, and was painted
by different artists (see Fig. 

14). 

Devotion to this mother figure came
to be seen as evidence of one’s nationalism. 

Ideas of nationalism also developed through a movement to revive
Indian folklore. 

In late-nineteenth-century India, nationalists began
recording folk tales sung by bards and they toured villages to gather
folk songs and legends. 

These tales, they believed, gave a true picture
of traditional culture that had been corrupted and damaged by
outside forces. 

It was essential to preserve this folk tradition  in
order to discover one’s national identity and restore a sense of pride
in one’s past. 

In Bengal, Rabindranath Tagore himself began collecting
ballads, nursery rhymes and myths, and led the movement for folk
Fig. 

12 – Bharat Mata, Abanindranath Tagore,
1905. 

Notice that the mother figure here is shown as
dispensing learning, food and clothing. 

The mala
in one hand emphasises her ascetic quality. 

Abanindranath Tagore, like Ravi Varma before
him, tried to develop a style of painting that
could be seen as truly Indian. 

Fig. 

13 – Jawaharlal Nehru, a popular print. 

Nehru is here shown holding the image of Bharat Mata and the map of India
close to his heart. 

In a lot of popular prints, nationalist leaders are shown
offering their heads to Bharat Mata. 

The idea of sacrifice for the mother was
powerful within popular imagination. 

2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
48
‘In earlier times, foreign travellers in India marvelled at the courage, truthfulness and modesty of the people of the Arya
vamsa; now they remark mainly on the absence of those qualities. 

In those days Hindus would set out on conquest and
hoist their flags in Tartar, China and other countries; now a few soldiers from a tiny island far away are lording it over the
land of India.’ 

Tarinicharan Chattopadhyay, Bharatbarsher Itihas (The History of Bharatbarsh),  vol. 

1, 1858. 

Source E
Source
revival. 

In Madras, Natesa Sastri published a massive four-volume
collection of Tamil folk tales, The Folklore of  Southern India. 

He believed
that folklore was national literature; it was ‘the most trustworthy
manifestation of people’s real thoughts and characteristics’. 

As the national movement developed, nationalist leaders became
more and more aware of such icons and symbols in unifying people
and inspiring in them a feeling of nationalism. 

During the Swadeshi
movement in Bengal, a tricolour flag (red, green and yellow) was
designed. 

It had eight lotuses representing eight provinces of British
India, and a crescent moon, representing Hindus and Muslims. 

By
1921, Gandhiji had designed the Swaraj flag. 

It was again a tricolour
(red, green and white) and had a spinning wheel in the centre,
representing the Gandhian ideal of self-help. 

Carrying the flag,
holding it aloft, during marches became a symbol of defiance. 

Another means of creating a feeling of nationalism was through
reinterpretation of history. 

By the end of the nineteenth century
many Indians began feeling that to instill a sense of pride in the
nation, Indian history had to be thought about differently. 

The British
saw Indians as backward and primitive, incapable of governing
themselves. 

In response, Indians began looking into the past to
discover India’s great achievements. 

They wrote about the glorious
developments in ancient times when art and architecture, science
and mathematics, religion and culture, law and philosophy, crafts
and trade had flourished. 

This glorious time, in their view, was
followed by a history of decline, when India was colonised. 

These
nationalist histories urged the readers to take pride in India’s great
achievements in the past and struggle to change the miserable
conditions of life under British rule. 

These efforts to unify people were not without problems. 

When the
past being glorified was Hindu, when the images celebrated were
drawn from Hindu iconography, then people of other communities
felt left out. 

Fig. 

14a – Bharat Mata. 

This figure of Bharat Mata is a contrast to the
one painted by Abanindranath Tagore. 

Here she
is shown with a trishul, standing  beside a lion
and an elephant – both symbols of power and
authority. 

Look at Figs. 

12 and 14. 

Do you think these
images will appeal to all castes and communities? 

Explain your views briefly. 

Activity
2020-21
49
Nationalism  in  India
Conclusion
A growing anger against the colonial government was thus
bringing together various groups and classes of Indians into a
common struggle for freedom in the first half of the twentieth
century. 

The Congress under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi
tried to channel people’s grievances into organised movements
for independence. 

Through such movements the nationalists
tried to forge a national unity. 

But as we have seen, diverse groups
and classes participated in these movements with varied aspirations
and expectations. 

As their
grievances were wide-ranging,
freedom from colonial rule also
meant different things to
different people. 

The Congress
continuously attempted to
resolve differences, and ensure
that the demands of one group
did not alienate another. 

This is
precisely why the unity within
the movement often broke down. 

The high points of Congress
activity and nationalist unity
were followed by phases of
disunity and inner conflict
between groups. 

In other words, what was emerging was a nation with many
voices wanting freedom from colonial rule. 

Quit India Movement
The failure of the Cripps Mission and the effects of World War II created widespread discontentment in India. 

This
led Gandhiji to launch a movement calling for complete withdrawal of the British from India. 

The Congress Working
Committee, in its meeting in Wardha on 14 July 1942, passed the historic ‘Quit India’ resolution demanding the
immediate transfer of power to Indians and quit India. 

On 8 August 1942 in Bombay, the All India Congress Committee
endorsed the resolution which called for a non-violent mass struggle on the widest possible scale throughout the
country. 

It was on this occasion that Gandhiji delivered the famous ‘Do or Die’ speech. 

The call for ‘Quit India’ almost
brought the state machinery to a standstill in large parts of the country as people voluntarily threw themselves into
the thick of the movement. 

People observed hartals, and demonstrations and processions were accompanied by
national songs and slogans. 

The movement was truly a mass movement which brought into its ambit thousands of
ordinary people, namely students, workers and peasants. 

It also saw the active participation of leaders, namely,
Jayprakash Narayan, Aruna Asaf Ali and Ram Manohar Lohia and many women such as Matangini Hazra in Bengal,
Kanaklata Barua in Assam and Rama Devi in Odisha. 

The British responded with much force, yet it took more than a
year to suppress the movement. 

Fig. 

14b
Women’s procession in Bombay during the Quit
India Movement
2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
50
Discuss
Project
1. 

List all the different social groups which joined the Non-Cooperation Movement of 1921. 

Then choose any three and write about their hopes and struggles to show why they
joined the movement. 

2. 

Discuss the Salt March to make clear why it was an effective symbol of resistance
against colonialism. 

3. 

Imagine you are a woman participating in the Civil Disobedience Movement. 

Explain
what the experience meant to your life. 

4. 

Why did political leaders differ sharply over the question of separate electorates? 

Find out about the anti-colonial movement in Indo-China. 

Compare and contrast India’s national
movement with the ways in which Indo-China became independent. 

Discuss
Write in brief
1. 

Explain:
a) Why growth of nationalism in the colonies is linked to an anti-colonial movement. 

b) How the First World War helped in the growth of the National Movement in India. 

c) Why Indians were outraged by the Rowlatt Act. 

d) Why Gandhiji decided to withdraw the Non-Cooperation Movement. 

2. 

What is meant by the idea of satyagraha? 

3. 

Write a newspaper report on:
a) The Jallianwala Bagh massacre
b) The Simon Commission
4. 

Compare the images of Bharat Mata in this chapter with the image of Germania
in Chapter 1. 

Write in brief
Project
2020-21 

499
Named Entity Recognition
bert
Accuracy of sentence splitting using spacy for nosiy data is 94%

#does not work for large texts.
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForTokenClassification
from transformers import pipeline

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("dslim/bert-base-NER")
model = AutoModelForTokenClassification.from_pretrained("dslim/bert-base-NER")

nlp = pipeline("ner", model=model, tokenizer=tokenizer)
example = "My name is Wolfgang and I live in Pune.Rajasthan is a great state."
for i in list:
  ner_results = nlp(i)
  print(ner_results)
#print(nlp(example))
#result=nlp(text)
#print(result)
HBox(children=(FloatProgress(value=0.0, description='Downloading', max=59.0, style=ProgressStyle(description_w…
HBox(children=(FloatProgress(value=0.0, description='Downloading', max=829.0, style=ProgressStyle(description_…
HBox(children=(FloatProgress(value=0.0, description='Downloading', max=213450.0, style=ProgressStyle(descripti…
HBox(children=(FloatProgress(value=0.0, description='Downloading', max=2.0, style=ProgressStyle(description_wi…
HBox(children=(FloatProgress(value=0.0, description='Downloading', max=112.0, style=ProgressStyle(description_…
HBox(children=(FloatProgress(value=0.0, description='Downloading', max=433316646.0, style=ProgressStyle(descri…
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.999495, 'index': 5, 'word': 'India', 'start': 20, 'end': 25}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99978364, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Europe', 'start': 66, 'end': 72}]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99983853, 'index': 7, 'word': 'India', 'start': 37, 'end': 42}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99975735, 'index': 2, 'word': 'India', 'start': 3, 'end': 8}]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99734956, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 4, 'end': 12}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9995074, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 19, 'end': 21}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.7524078, 'index': 5, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 21, 'end': 24}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9437847, 'index': 6, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 24, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99900043, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 27, 'end': 33}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99981296, 'index': 14, 'word': 'India', 'start': 72, 'end': 77}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.70410556, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 71, 'end': 74}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.6018542, 'index': 17, 'word': '-', 'start': 74, 'end': 75}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.742061, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 76, 'end': 87}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.83526635, 'index': 19, 'word': 'and', 'start': 88, 'end': 91}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9448653, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 92, 'end': 97}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9180652, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 98, 'end': 100}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.6031179, 'index': 22, 'word': '##so', 'start': 100, 'end': 102}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.945181, 'index': 23, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 102, 'end': 110}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.83675635, 'index': 24, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 111, 'end': 119}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99801916, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 24, 'end': 32}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.6790538, 'index': 1, 'word': 'National', 'start': 0, 'end': 8}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.68697035, 'index': 2, 'word': '##ism', 'start': 8, 'end': 11}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.82847404, 'index': 4, 'word': 'India', 'start': 17, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.6764809, 'index': 7, 'word': 'National', 'start': 34, 'end': 42}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.8850281, 'index': 8, 'word': '##ism', 'start': 42, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.53453225, 'index': 10, 'word': 'India', 'start': 49, 'end': 54}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9995287, 'index': 4, 'word': 'India', 'start': 8, 'end': 13}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.88381785, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Contemporary', 'start': 22, 'end': 34}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99031067, 'index': 8, 'word': 'World', 'start': 35, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9939503, 'index': 12, 'word': 'First', 'start': 51, 'end': 56}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99788016, 'index': 13, 'word': 'World', 'start': 57, 'end': 62}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9984466, 'index': 14, 'word': 'War', 'start': 63, 'end': 66}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.6170724, 'index': 16, 'word': 'K', 'start': 68, 'end': 69}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.8183712, 'index': 17, 'word': '##hil', 'start': 69, 'end': 72}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.5076863, 'index': 18, 'word': '##af', 'start': 72, 'end': 74}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.39539307, 'index': 19, 'word': '##at', 'start': 74, 'end': 76}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.4767674, 'index': 20, 'word': 'and', 'start': 77, 'end': 80}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.93793905, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 81, 'end': 84}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9904661, 'index': 22, 'word': '-', 'start': 84, 'end': 85}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.88347787, 'index': 23, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 85, 'end': 96}]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9983028, 'index': 17, 'word': 'India', 'start': 59, 'end': 64}]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.5453877, 'index': 6, 'word': '##dea', 'start': 9, 'end': 12}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9718512, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Sa', 'start': 16, 'end': 18}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.3618813, 'index': 10, 'word': '##ag', 'start': 20, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.40687996, 'index': 11, 'word': '##rah', 'start': 22, 'end': 25}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.37122405, 'index': 12, 'word': '##a', 'start': 25, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.5693562, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 27, 'end': 29}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.73259646, 'index': 14, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 29, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.538703, 'index': 15, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 32, 'end': 34}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.98532915, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 35, 'end': 41}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997585, 'index': 19, 'word': 'India', 'start': 54, 'end': 59}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99963623, 'index': 9, 'word': 'South', 'start': 30, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.99867994, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Africa', 'start': 36, 'end': 42}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9992628, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 4, 'end': 10}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9995075, 'index': 6, 'word': 'South', 'start': 22, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9985136, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Africa', 'start': 28, 'end': 34}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.7979229, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Vol', 'start': 49, 'end': 52}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.7324809, 'index': 11, 'word': '##ks', 'start': 52, 'end': 54}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9553193, 'index': 12, 'word': '##rust', 'start': 54, 'end': 58}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9995858, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 0, 'end': 2}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8856252, 'index': 2, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 2, 'end': 5}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9647711, 'index': 3, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 5, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9994048, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 8, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9730091, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Newcastle', 'start': 44, 'end': 53}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99755365, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Trans', 'start': 57, 'end': 62}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.98433447, 'index': 13, 'word': '##va', 'start': 62, 'end': 64}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.99373233, 'index': 14, 'word': '##al', 'start': 64, 'end': 66}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.5332007, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 35, 'end': 41}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9993622, 'index': 8, 'word': 'India', 'start': 28, 'end': 33}]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99958, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 0, 'end': 2}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8230182, 'index': 2, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 2, 'end': 5}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9350474, 'index': 3, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 5, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99888885, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 8, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9992716, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Indians', 'start': 73, 'end': 80}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997734, 'index': 4, 'word': 'India', 'start': 18, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9995541, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 25, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.5893034, 'index': 7, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 27, 'end': 30}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8130337, 'index': 8, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 30, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9986927, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 33, 'end': 39}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99876726, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Cha', 'start': 24, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9353941, 'index': 7, 'word': '##mp', 'start': 27, 'end': 29}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.95319825, 'index': 8, 'word': '##aran', 'start': 29, 'end': 33}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997649, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Bihar', 'start': 38, 'end': 43}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9985548, 'index': 18, 'word': 'K', 'start': 72, 'end': 73}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.88689244, 'index': 19, 'word': '##hed', 'start': 73, 'end': 76}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9603029, 'index': 20, 'word': '##a', 'start': 76, 'end': 77}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9995922, 'index': 23, 'word': 'Gujarat', 'start': 90, 'end': 97}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9994919, 'index': 15, 'word': 'K', 'start': 64, 'end': 65}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.93857914, 'index': 16, 'word': '##hed', 'start': 65, 'end': 68}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.5542478, 'index': 17, 'word': '##a', 'start': 68, 'end': 69}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99958926, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 9, 'end': 11}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8829048, 'index': 5, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 11, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8660715, 'index': 6, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 14, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.999106, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 17, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99949944, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Ahmed', 'start': 32, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9994003, 'index': 11, 'word': '##abad', 'start': 37, 'end': 41}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99374664, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Row', 'start': 8, 'end': 11}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.96790123, 'index': 6, 'word': '##latt', 'start': 11, 'end': 15}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99602026, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Act', 'start': 16, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99201906, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 50, 'end': 56}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.46579957, 'index': 16, 'word': '##ji', 'start': 56, 'end': 58}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99682146, 'index': 31, 'word': 'Row', 'start': 130, 'end': 133}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.97719157, 'index': 32, 'word': '##latt', 'start': 133, 'end': 137}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99635667, 'index': 33, 'word': 'Act', 'start': 138, 'end': 141}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.8485764, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Act', 'start': 5, 'end': 8}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99932086, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Imperial', 'start': 47, 'end': 55}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99880433, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Legislative', 'start': 56, 'end': 67}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99855155, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Council', 'start': 68, 'end': 75}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99967265, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 113, 'end': 119}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.999535, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 0, 'end': 2}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.842574, 'index': 2, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 2, 'end': 5}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.88585705, 'index': 3, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 5, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.998496, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 8, 'end': 14}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9997122, 'index': 27, 'word': 'British', 'start': 130, 'end': 137}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9990586, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Am', 'start': 34, 'end': 36}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.97054034, 'index': 8, 'word': '##rits', 'start': 36, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9931631, 'index': 9, 'word': '##ar', 'start': 40, 'end': 42}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9996313, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 48, 'end': 50}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8857526, 'index': 13, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 50, 'end': 53}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9888996, 'index': 14, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 53, 'end': 55}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.999378, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 56, 'end': 62}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.999574, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Delhi', 'start': 88, 'end': 93}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9996163, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Am', 'start': 27, 'end': 29}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9058096, 'index': 9, 'word': '##rits', 'start': 29, 'end': 33}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9654455, 'index': 10, 'word': '##ar', 'start': 33, 'end': 35}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9979534, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Dyer', 'start': 36, 'end': 40}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99956983, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 0, 'end': 2}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.77695835, 'index': 2, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 2, 'end': 5}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.97202957, 'index': 3, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 5, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9984099, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 8, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9150251, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Sa', 'start': 18, 'end': 20}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.5473707, 'index': 7, 'word': '##ty', 'start': 20, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.8184943, 'index': 8, 'word': '##ag', 'start': 22, 'end': 24}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.5795823, 'index': 9, 'word': '##rah', 'start': 24, 'end': 27}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99960065, 'index': 4, 'word': 'South', 'start': 16, 'end': 21}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9986951, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Africa', 'start': 22, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99102914, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Sa', 'start': 61, 'end': 63}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.5243996, 'index': 14, 'word': '##ty', 'start': 63, 'end': 65}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.35533088, 'index': 15, 'word': '##ag', 'start': 65, 'end': 67}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.97991735, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Sa', 'start': 2, 'end': 4}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.7088481, 'index': 3, 'word': '##ty', 'start': 4, 'end': 6}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.25030416, 'index': 4, 'word': '##ag', 'start': 6, 'end': 8}]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99984246, 'index': 17, 'word': 'India', 'start': 60, 'end': 65}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9998066, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Britain', 'start': 79, 'end': 86}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997669, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Europe', 'start': 90, 'end': 96}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9996182, 'index': 2, 'word': 'British', 'start': 4, 'end': 11}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9998029, 'index': 6, 'word': 'India', 'start': 28, 'end': 33}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99954045, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 9, 'end': 11}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.889926, 'index': 4, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 11, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9816143, 'index': 5, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 14, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99906147, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 17, 'end': 23}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9988729, 'index': 6, 'word': 'India', 'start': 17, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99152887, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Contemporary', 'start': 31, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9982736, 'index': 10, 'word': 'World', 'start': 44, 'end': 49}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9397807, 'index': 11, 'word': '32', 'start': 50, 'end': 52}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.6081395, 'index': 17, 'word': 'J', 'start': 78, 'end': 79}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.30019137, 'index': 18, 'word': '##all', 'start': 79, 'end': 82}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.4241081, 'index': 19, 'word': '##ian', 'start': 82, 'end': 85}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.787933, 'index': 20, 'word': '##wall', 'start': 85, 'end': 89}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9222282, 'index': 21, 'word': '##a', 'start': 89, 'end': 90}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.8891487, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Ba', 'start': 91, 'end': 93}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.92649734, 'index': 23, 'word': '##gh', 'start': 93, 'end': 95}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.98829013, 'index': 13, 'word': 'J', 'start': 61, 'end': 62}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9804625, 'index': 14, 'word': '##all', 'start': 62, 'end': 65}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.8283851, 'index': 15, 'word': '##ian', 'start': 65, 'end': 68}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9406557, 'index': 16, 'word': '##wall', 'start': 68, 'end': 72}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.99125654, 'index': 17, 'word': '##a', 'start': 72, 'end': 73}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9937995, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Ba', 'start': 74, 'end': 76}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9638708, 'index': 19, 'word': '##gh', 'start': 76, 'end': 78}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.98942083, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Bai', 'start': 37, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.612941, 'index': 9, 'word': '##sa', 'start': 40, 'end': 42}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.810616, 'index': 10, 'word': '##kh', 'start': 42, 'end': 44}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.80992854, 'index': 11, 'word': '##i', 'start': 44, 'end': 45}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99786985, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Dyer', 'start': 0, 'end': 4}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9714126, 'index': 5, 'word': 'J', 'start': 15, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.8623912, 'index': 6, 'word': '##all', 'start': 16, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.91276366, 'index': 7, 'word': '##ian', 'start': 19, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.95649487, 'index': 8, 'word': '##wall', 'start': 22, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9938215, 'index': 9, 'word': '##a', 'start': 26, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.99484533, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Ba', 'start': 28, 'end': 30}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.96304494, 'index': 11, 'word': '##gh', 'start': 30, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99453324, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 82, 'end': 88}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9985707, 'index': 60, 'word': 'G', 'start': 251, 'end': 252}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9701859, 'index': 61, 'word': '##u', 'start': 252, 'end': 253}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9630038, 'index': 62, 'word': '##j', 'start': 253, 'end': 254}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9797541, 'index': 63, 'word': '##ran', 'start': 254, 'end': 257}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.99500775, 'index': 64, 'word': '##wala', 'start': 257, 'end': 261}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997264, 'index': 66, 'word': 'Punjab', 'start': 265, 'end': 271}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997598, 'index': 70, 'word': 'Pakistan', 'start': 280, 'end': 288}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99959534, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 24, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.7729674, 'index': 6, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 26, 'end': 29}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9761591, 'index': 7, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 29, 'end': 31}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9992242, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 32, 'end': 38}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.94827926, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Row', 'start': 10, 'end': 13}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.56031954, 'index': 4, 'word': '##latt', 'start': 13, 'end': 17}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.81043863, 'index': 5, 'word': 'sat', 'start': 18, 'end': 21}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.59037817, 'index': 6, 'word': '##ya', 'start': 21, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.6249433, 'index': 7, 'word': '##gra', 'start': 23, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.77760994, 'index': 8, 'word': '##ha', 'start': 26, 'end': 28}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99958473, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 0, 'end': 2}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9210112, 'index': 2, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 2, 'end': 5}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9677633, 'index': 3, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 5, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99900085, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 8, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99973017, 'index': 18, 'word': 'India', 'start': 74, 'end': 79}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99907374, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Hindus', 'start': 81, 'end': 87}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9990316, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Muslims', 'start': 92, 'end': 99}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.7726032, 'index': 15, 'word': 'K', 'start': 51, 'end': 52}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.6160849, 'index': 16, 'word': '##hil', 'start': 52, 'end': 55}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.63997626, 'index': 17, 'word': '##af', 'start': 55, 'end': 57}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9975345, 'index': 2, 'word': 'First', 'start': 4, 'end': 9}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99735236, 'index': 3, 'word': 'World', 'start': 10, 'end': 15}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99859524, 'index': 4, 'word': 'War', 'start': 16, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99818754, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Ottoman', 'start': 49, 'end': 56}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.7814986, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Turkey', 'start': 57, 'end': 63}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99976915, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Ottoman', 'start': 80, 'end': 87}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9997273, 'index': 25, 'word': 'Islamic', 'start': 125, 'end': 132}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99445885, 'index': 29, 'word': 'K', 'start': 144, 'end': 145}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9888472, 'index': 30, 'word': '##hali', 'start': 145, 'end': 149}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.98637354, 'index': 31, 'word': '##fa', 'start': 149, 'end': 151}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9894099, 'index': 4, 'word': 'K', 'start': 14, 'end': 15}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.77648246, 'index': 5, 'word': '##hali', 'start': 15, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9977466, 'index': 13, 'word': 'K', 'start': 43, 'end': 44}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9798632, 'index': 14, 'word': '##hil', 'start': 44, 'end': 47}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9951031, 'index': 15, 'word': '##af', 'start': 47, 'end': 49}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99053335, 'index': 16, 'word': '##at', 'start': 49, 'end': 51}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9966989, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Committee', 'start': 52, 'end': 61}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9988294, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Bombay', 'start': 76, 'end': 82}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9995728, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Muslim', 'start': 22, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99960315, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Muhammad', 'start': 55, 'end': 63}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99873996, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Ali', 'start': 64, 'end': 67}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99971396, 'index': 13, 'word': 'S', 'start': 72, 'end': 73}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9918212, 'index': 14, 'word': '##ha', 'start': 73, 'end': 75}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8092828, 'index': 15, 'word': '##uka', 'start': 75, 'end': 78}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.98989576, 'index': 16, 'word': '##t', 'start': 78, 'end': 79}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9986822, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Ali', 'start': 80, 'end': 83}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99942803, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 107, 'end': 109}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9192645, 'index': 23, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 109, 'end': 112}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.98702824, 'index': 24, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 112, 'end': 114}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9989061, 'index': 25, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 115, 'end': 121}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9913139, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 0, 'end': 6}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9995246, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Muslims', 'start': 45, 'end': 52}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9980965, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Calcutta', 'start': 7, 'end': 15}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99460757, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 31, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.59649277, 'index': 29, 'word': 'K', 'start': 148, 'end': 149}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.42489493, 'index': 30, 'word': '##hil', 'start': 149, 'end': 152}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.48380893, 'index': 31, 'word': '##af', 'start': 152, 'end': 154}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.849424, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Hi', 'start': 19, 'end': 21}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.8694214, 'index': 6, 'word': '##nd', 'start': 21, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.98829675, 'index': 7, 'word': 'S', 'start': 24, 'end': 25}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.956067, 'index': 8, 'word': '##wara', 'start': 25, 'end': 29}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9501038, 'index': 9, 'word': '##j', 'start': 29, 'end': 30}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.999344, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 38, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.60549545, 'index': 14, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 40, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.6668448, 'index': 15, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 43, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99847424, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 46, 'end': 52}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99965817, 'index': 19, 'word': 'British', 'start': 67, 'end': 74}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99971735, 'index': 24, 'word': 'India', 'start': 99, 'end': 104}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.98923093, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Dyer', 'start': 12, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99970484, 'index': 14, 'word': 'British', 'start': 59, 'end': 66}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9990986, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Am', 'start': 77, 'end': 79}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.75172806, 'index': 18, 'word': '##rits', 'start': 79, 'end': 83}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9934325, 'index': 19, 'word': '##ar', 'start': 83, 'end': 85}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.999596, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Punjab', 'start': 87, 'end': 93}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9811372, 'index': 8, 'word': 'India', 'start': 28, 'end': 33}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9994849, 'index': 39, 'word': 'Indians', 'start': 180, 'end': 187}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.999447, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Indians', 'start': 3, 'end': 10}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99961746, 'index': 7, 'word': 'British', 'start': 33, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997968, 'index': 10, 'word': 'India', 'start': 49, 'end': 54}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99629515, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 0, 'end': 6}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9993036, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 27, 'end': 29}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.65477777, 'index': 7, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 29, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9894301, 'index': 8, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 32, 'end': 34}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9991802, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 35, 'end': 41}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99962515, 'index': 11, 'word': 'S', 'start': 46, 'end': 47}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99737674, 'index': 12, 'word': '##ha', 'start': 47, 'end': 49}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9659453, 'index': 13, 'word': '##uka', 'start': 49, 'end': 52}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99061203, 'index': 14, 'word': '##t', 'start': 52, 'end': 53}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99952906, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Ali', 'start': 54, 'end': 57}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99880147, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 16, 'end': 24}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9989203, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 84, 'end': 92}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.913347, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 16, 'end': 24}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9984865, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Na', 'start': 36, 'end': 38}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.864406, 'index': 9, 'word': '##g', 'start': 38, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.98582625, 'index': 10, 'word': '##pur', 'start': 39, 'end': 42}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9817581, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 97, 'end': 100}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9241476, 'index': 23, 'word': '-', 'start': 100, 'end': 101}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.81663895, 'index': 24, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 101, 'end': 112}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9603989, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 56, 'end': 59}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.91350937, 'index': 13, 'word': '-', 'start': 59, 'end': 60}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.82240057, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 60, 'end': 71}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9997243, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Western', 'start': 40, 'end': 47}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99967355, 'index': 4, 'word': 'India', 'start': 8, 'end': 13}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.723188, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Contemporary', 'start': 22, 'end': 34}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.94860244, 'index': 8, 'word': 'World', 'start': 35, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.42081216, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 76, 'end': 84}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.86014324, 'index': 19, 'word': 'The', 'start': 85, 'end': 88}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.95163125, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 89, 'end': 92}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.97228235, 'index': 21, 'word': '-', 'start': 92, 'end': 93}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.96845585, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 93, 'end': 104}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9093078, 'index': 23, 'word': '-', 'start': 104, 'end': 105}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.58591044, 'index': 24, 'word': 'K', 'start': 105, 'end': 106}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.97061485, 'index': 25, 'word': '##hil', 'start': 106, 'end': 109}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99146175, 'index': 26, 'word': '##af', 'start': 109, 'end': 111}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9919821, 'index': 27, 'word': '##at', 'start': 111, 'end': 113}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9849142, 'index': 28, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 114, 'end': 122}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.42411503, 'index': 9, 'word': 'S', 'start': 37, 'end': 38}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.24569073, 'index': 10, 'word': '##wara', 'start': 38, 'end': 42}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.6241306, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 8, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.7143582, 'index': 6, 'word': 'in', 'start': 17, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.6892323, 'index': 7, 'word': 'the', 'start': 20, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.6321188, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Towns', 'start': 24, 'end': 29}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99865216, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Madras', 'start': 62, 'end': 68}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9993231, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Justice', 'start': 80, 'end': 87}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.999128, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Party', 'start': 88, 'end': 93}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.935788, 'index': 22, 'word': 'non', 'start': 112, 'end': 115}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.98365176, 'index': 24, 'word': 'B', 'start': 116, 'end': 117}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.5719909, 'index': 25, 'word': '##rah', 'start': 117, 'end': 120}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99457705, 'index': 45, 'word': 'B', 'start': 221, 'end': 222}]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9996912, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 94, 'end': 100}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9997312, 'index': 23, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 121, 'end': 127}]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99972427, 'index': 5, 'word': 'British', 'start': 25, 'end': 32}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9992147, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 47, 'end': 53}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9997209, 'index': 26, 'word': 'British', 'start': 127, 'end': 134}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9972465, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 54, 'end': 57}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99777323, 'index': 15, 'word': '-', 'start': 57, 'end': 58}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9969056, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 58, 'end': 69}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99683374, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 70, 'end': 78}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9901424, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 49, 'end': 55}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.7105058, 'index': 10, 'word': '##ji', 'start': 55, 'end': 57}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9991977, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 77, 'end': 80}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9986751, 'index': 18, 'word': '-', 'start': 80, 'end': 81}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99860257, 'index': 19, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 81, 'end': 92}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9989542, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 93, 'end': 101}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99465483, 'index': 10, 'word': 'India', 'start': 37, 'end': 42}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9989939, 'index': 18, 'word': 'India', 'start': 87, 'end': 92}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99892765, 'index': 2, 'word': 'A', 'start': 3, 'end': 4}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.8754912, 'index': 3, 'word': '##wa', 'start': 4, 'end': 6}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.67738074, 'index': 4, 'word': '##dh', 'start': 6, 'end': 8}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9992937, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Baba', 'start': 31, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.998905, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Ram', 'start': 36, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.998811, 'index': 12, 'word': '##chan', 'start': 39, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99152386, 'index': 13, 'word': '##dra', 'start': 43, 'end': 46}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99977493, 'index': 24, 'word': 'Fiji', 'start': 83, 'end': 87}]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9994489, 'index': 5, 'word': 'J', 'start': 14, 'end': 15}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8691249, 'index': 6, 'word': '##awa', 'start': 15, 'end': 18}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.841007, 'index': 7, 'word': '##har', 'start': 18, 'end': 21}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.8679218, 'index': 8, 'word': '##lal', 'start': 21, 'end': 24}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99556124, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Nehru', 'start': 25, 'end': 30}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99725074, 'index': 16, 'word': 'A', 'start': 66, 'end': 67}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.6098868, 'index': 17, 'word': '##wa', 'start': 67, 'end': 69}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9044944, 'index': 18, 'word': '##dh', 'start': 69, 'end': 71}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9660447, 'index': 5, 'word': 'O', 'start': 16, 'end': 17}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.8387468, 'index': 6, 'word': '##ud', 'start': 17, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.98574525, 'index': 7, 'word': '##h', 'start': 19, 'end': 20}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9961563, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Ki', 'start': 21, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99375355, 'index': 9, 'word': '##san', 'start': 23, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.990868, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Sabha', 'start': 27, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99942267, 'index': 16, 'word': 'J', 'start': 54, 'end': 55}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99323404, 'index': 17, 'word': '##awa', 'start': 55, 'end': 58}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9146797, 'index': 18, 'word': '##har', 'start': 58, 'end': 61}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.93790835, 'index': 19, 'word': '##lal', 'start': 61, 'end': 64}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99843836, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Nehru', 'start': 65, 'end': 70}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9996618, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Baba', 'start': 72, 'end': 76}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99883825, 'index': 23, 'word': 'Ram', 'start': 77, 'end': 80}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9984606, 'index': 24, 'word': '##chan', 'start': 80, 'end': 84}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.8966524, 'index': 25, 'word': '##dra', 'start': 84, 'end': 87}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99921393, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 12, 'end': 15}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9989228, 'index': 5, 'word': '-', 'start': 15, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99885994, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 17, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9991466, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 29, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9987872, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 82, 'end': 90}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9598041, 'index': 22, 'word': 'A', 'start': 112, 'end': 113}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.43204185, 'index': 23, 'word': '##wa', 'start': 113, 'end': 115}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.755943, 'index': 24, 'word': '##dh', 'start': 115, 'end': 117}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99887514, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 59, 'end': 67}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9921361, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 48, 'end': 54}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.57358426, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 16, 'end': 18}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.51902425, 'index': 6, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 18, 'end': 21}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.54718894, 'index': 7, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 21, 'end': 23}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.92048734, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Be', 'start': 10, 'end': 12}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.96306616, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Labour', 'start': 18, 'end': 24}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99954796, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Uttar', 'start': 111, 'end': 116}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.99942535, 'index': 23, 'word': 'Pradesh', 'start': 117, 'end': 124}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9912344, 'index': 33, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 166, 'end': 172}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.6434681, 'index': 39, 'word': 'S', 'start': 186, 'end': 187}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.6782108, 'index': 40, 'word': '##wara', 'start': 187, 'end': 191}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.59536207, 'index': 41, 'word': '##j', 'start': 191, 'end': 192}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99792755, 'index': 11, 'word': 'United', 'start': 42, 'end': 48}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.99885803, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Provinces', 'start': 49, 'end': 58}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9924561, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Rae', 'start': 82, 'end': 85}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9985019, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Bar', 'start': 86, 'end': 89}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.99648345, 'index': 19, 'word': '##eli', 'start': 89, 'end': 92}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99960613, 'index': 1, 'word': 'J', 'start': 0, 'end': 1}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99397063, 'index': 2, 'word': '##awa', 'start': 1, 'end': 4}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.95699203, 'index': 3, 'word': '##har', 'start': 4, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.72934306, 'index': 4, 'word': '##lal', 'start': 7, 'end': 10}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9987437, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Nehru', 'start': 11, 'end': 16}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9989912, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Nehru', 'start': 20, 'end': 25}]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99568176, 'index': 10, 'word': 'God', 'start': 40, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9992247, 'index': 91, 'word': 'Sa', 'start': 373, 'end': 375}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.5406792, 'index': 92, 'word': '##rva', 'start': 375, 'end': 378}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.92888945, 'index': 93, 'word': '##pal', 'start': 378, 'end': 381}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.71806943, 'index': 94, 'word': '##li', 'start': 381, 'end': 383}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99762183, 'index': 95, 'word': 'Go', 'start': 384, 'end': 386}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9396702, 'index': 96, 'word': '##pal', 'start': 386, 'end': 389}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9978279, 'index': 98, 'word': 'J', 'start': 391, 'end': 392}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.85776556, 'index': 99, 'word': '##awa', 'start': 392, 'end': 395}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8524407, 'index': 100, 'word': '##har', 'start': 395, 'end': 398}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.93309075, 'index': 101, 'word': '##lal', 'start': 398, 'end': 401}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9790978, 'index': 102, 'word': 'Nehru', 'start': 402, 'end': 407}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.8755287, 'index': 1, 'word': 'I', 'start': 0, 'end': 1}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9995213, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Val', 'start': 25, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9240218, 'index': 8, 'word': '##la', 'start': 28, 'end': 30}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.98138785, 'index': 9, 'word': '##b', 'start': 30, 'end': 31}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.87236303, 'index': 10, 'word': '##h', 'start': 31, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9982654, 'index': 11, 'word': '##bha', 'start': 32, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.61486286, 'index': 12, 'word': '##i', 'start': 35, 'end': 36}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9993088, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Patel', 'start': 37, 'end': 42}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99863476, 'index': 19, 'word': 'Bar', 'start': 71, 'end': 74}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9926669, 'index': 20, 'word': '##do', 'start': 74, 'end': 76}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.86381173, 'index': 21, 'word': '##li', 'start': 76, 'end': 78}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9996436, 'index': 28, 'word': 'Gujarat', 'start': 92, 'end': 99}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9854391, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Bar', 'start': 13, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9461006, 'index': 5, 'word': '##do', 'start': 16, 'end': 18}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.7076185, 'index': 6, 'word': '##li', 'start': 18, 'end': 20}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9875206, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Sa', 'start': 21, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9730652, 'index': 8, 'word': '##ty', 'start': 23, 'end': 25}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.84598917, 'index': 9, 'word': '##ag', 'start': 25, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.6432636, 'index': 10, 'word': '##rah', 'start': 27, 'end': 30}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.8604561, 'index': 11, 'word': '##a', 'start': 30, 'end': 31}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9991687, 'index': 23, 'word': 'Val', 'start': 90, 'end': 93}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.7680117, 'index': 24, 'word': '##la', 'start': 93, 'end': 95}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9852384, 'index': 25, 'word': '##b', 'start': 95, 'end': 96}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.8234356, 'index': 26, 'word': '##h', 'start': 96, 'end': 97}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99778664, 'index': 27, 'word': '##bha', 'start': 97, 'end': 100}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8115546, 'index': 28, 'word': '##i', 'start': 100, 'end': 101}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99905324, 'index': 29, 'word': 'Patel', 'start': 102, 'end': 107}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99886227, 'index': 15, 'word': 'India', 'start': 83, 'end': 88}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.999571, 'index': 4, 'word': 'India', 'start': 8, 'end': 13}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9919616, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Contemporary', 'start': 22, 'end': 34}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9954877, 'index': 8, 'word': 'World', 'start': 35, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99603117, 'index': 9, 'word': '36', 'start': 41, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9974435, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 87, 'end': 89}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.87524337, 'index': 17, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 89, 'end': 92}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9927721, 'index': 18, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 92, 'end': 94}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9940099, 'index': 19, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 95, 'end': 101}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9986281, 'index': 3, 'word': 'G', 'start': 7, 'end': 8}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9117985, 'index': 4, 'word': '##ude', 'start': 8, 'end': 11}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9912369, 'index': 5, 'word': '##m', 'start': 11, 'end': 12}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.997225, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Hills', 'start': 13, 'end': 18}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9996048, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Andhra', 'start': 22, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9994891, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Pradesh', 'start': 29, 'end': 36}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99882954, 'index': 31, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 143, 'end': 151}]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9995336, 'index': 1, 'word': 'All', 'start': 0, 'end': 3}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.6310116, 'index': 2, 'word': '##uri', 'start': 3, 'end': 6}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99917626, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Sit', 'start': 7, 'end': 10}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9891018, 'index': 4, 'word': '##ara', 'start': 10, 'end': 13}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9950945, 'index': 5, 'word': '##m', 'start': 13, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9963902, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Raj', 'start': 15, 'end': 18}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.89003897, 'index': 7, 'word': '##u', 'start': 18, 'end': 19}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.6507346, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Raj', 'start': 14, 'end': 17}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9936423, 'index': 16, 'word': 'God', 'start': 72, 'end': 75}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99917835, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 32, 'end': 34}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9486288, 'index': 10, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 34, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9805121, 'index': 11, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 37, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99661684, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 40, 'end': 46}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9987851, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 76, 'end': 79}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9985583, 'index': 21, 'word': '-', 'start': 79, 'end': 80}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99847335, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 80, 'end': 91}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9987242, 'index': 23, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 92, 'end': 100}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9998392, 'index': 9, 'word': 'India', 'start': 38, 'end': 43}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.86520916, 'index': 2, 'word': 'G', 'start': 4, 'end': 5}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.56560063, 'index': 3, 'word': '##ude', 'start': 5, 'end': 8}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.8106276, 'index': 4, 'word': '##m', 'start': 8, 'end': 9}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9997239, 'index': 13, 'word': 'British', 'start': 61, 'end': 68}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.6571971, 'index': 2, 'word': '##u', 'start': 3, 'end': 4}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9906758, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Plantation', 'start': 18, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99390185, 'index': 10, 'word': '##s', 'start': 28, 'end': 29}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9935355, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Workers', 'start': 30, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99705935, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 73, 'end': 75}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.53879786, 'index': 19, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 75, 'end': 78}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.98278093, 'index': 20, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 78, 'end': 80}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9933631, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 81, 'end': 87}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997815, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Assam', 'start': 26, 'end': 31}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99619913, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Inland', 'start': 10, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99671793, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Em', 'start': 17, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99553853, 'index': 5, 'word': '##ig', 'start': 19, 'end': 21}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99780434, 'index': 6, 'word': '##ration', 'start': 21, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99836105, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Act', 'start': 28, 'end': 31}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9570528, 'index': 8, 'word': 'of', 'start': 32, 'end': 34}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9988207, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 23, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99860495, 'index': 7, 'word': '-', 'start': 26, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9983976, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 27, 'end': 38}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99887556, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 39, 'end': 47}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8338796, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 19, 'end': 25}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.44912717, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Raj', 'start': 26, 'end': 29}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9993947, 'index': 8, 'word': 'National', 'start': 41, 'end': 49}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9992235, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 50, 'end': 58}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99973834, 'index': 19, 'word': 'British', 'start': 101, 'end': 108}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9871392, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Indo', 'start': 65, 'end': 69}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.95506614, 'index': 14, 'word': '-', 'start': 69, 'end': 70}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9235801, 'index': 15, 'word': 'China', 'start': 70, 'end': 75}]
[{'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.49669182, 'index': 8, 'word': '##ism', 'start': 28, 'end': 31}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.867978, 'index': 10, 'word': 'India', 'start': 37, 'end': 42}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.984016, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 98, 'end': 106}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99633914, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 30, 'end': 36}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.81557375, 'index': 10, 'word': '##ji', 'start': 36, 'end': 38}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.602876, 'index': 20, 'word': 'S', 'start': 76, 'end': 77}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.3021629, 'index': 21, 'word': '##wat', 'start': 77, 'end': 80}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.2954367, 'index': 22, 'word': '##ant', 'start': 80, 'end': 83}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.5307143, 'index': 23, 'word': '##ra', 'start': 83, 'end': 85}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.987765, 'index': 24, 'word': 'B', 'start': 86, 'end': 87}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.95195234, 'index': 25, 'word': '##hara', 'start': 87, 'end': 91}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.85417026, 'index': 26, 'word': '##t', 'start': 91, 'end': 92}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.533978, 'index': 36, 'word': 'all', 'start': 137, 'end': 140}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.7283165, 'index': 38, 'word': 'India', 'start': 141, 'end': 146}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9991931, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 31, 'end': 33}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.91224706, 'index': 9, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 33, 'end': 36}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9894335, 'index': 10, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 36, 'end': 38}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99261683, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 39, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9957029, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 87, 'end': 95}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9993924, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Cha', 'start': 4, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9483812, 'index': 4, 'word': '##uri', 'start': 7, 'end': 10}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9987176, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Cha', 'start': 11, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.98171616, 'index': 6, 'word': '##ura', 'start': 14, 'end': 17}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9504842, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Cha', 'start': 3, 'end': 6}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.88319296, 'index': 3, 'word': '##uri', 'start': 6, 'end': 9}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.98509663, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Cha', 'start': 10, 'end': 13}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.98840475, 'index': 5, 'word': '##ura', 'start': 13, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9976265, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Go', 'start': 20, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.98084074, 'index': 8, 'word': '##rak', 'start': 22, 'end': 25}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9955, 'index': 9, 'word': '##hp', 'start': 25, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9850201, 'index': 10, 'word': '##ur', 'start': 27, 'end': 29}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9995324, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 25, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.73807114, 'index': 7, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 27, 'end': 30}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9145217, 'index': 8, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 30, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99920917, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 33, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9992691, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 61, 'end': 64}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99866307, 'index': 16, 'word': '-', 'start': 64, 'end': 65}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.998562, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 65, 'end': 76}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99879307, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 77, 'end': 85}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9995805, 'index': 4, 'word': 'India', 'start': 8, 'end': 13}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.25300673, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Contemporary', 'start': 22, 'end': 34}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.84918624, 'index': 8, 'word': 'World', 'start': 35, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.87966305, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 55, 'end': 60}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.96638167, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 61, 'end': 63}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.8038019, 'index': 14, 'word': '##so', 'start': 63, 'end': 65}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.5811394, 'index': 15, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 65, 'end': 73}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99908876, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 92, 'end': 94}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.52292293, 'index': 21, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 94, 'end': 97}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.86359787, 'index': 22, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 97, 'end': 99}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9984665, 'index': 23, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 100, 'end': 106}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9981932, 'index': 28, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 131, 'end': 134}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99831235, 'index': 29, 'word': '-', 'start': 134, 'end': 135}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9980907, 'index': 30, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 135, 'end': 146}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99794984, 'index': 31, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 147, 'end': 155}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9956264, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 11, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9886221, 'index': 31, 'word': 'Government', 'start': 164, 'end': 174}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9889059, 'index': 32, 'word': 'of', 'start': 175, 'end': 177}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9930067, 'index': 33, 'word': 'India', 'start': 178, 'end': 183}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99535877, 'index': 34, 'word': 'Act', 'start': 184, 'end': 187}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.81887233, 'index': 35, 'word': 'of', 'start': 188, 'end': 190}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9997731, 'index': 9, 'word': 'British', 'start': 42, 'end': 49}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99979186, 'index': 1, 'word': 'C', 'start': 0, 'end': 1}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9927882, 'index': 2, 'word': '.', 'start': 1, 'end': 2}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99516493, 'index': 3, 'word': 'R', 'start': 3, 'end': 4}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.61202514, 'index': 4, 'word': '.', 'start': 4, 'end': 5}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9997305, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Das', 'start': 6, 'end': 9}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9997188, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Mo', 'start': 14, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.624451, 'index': 8, 'word': '##til', 'start': 16, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.6527072, 'index': 9, 'word': '##al', 'start': 19, 'end': 21}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9993647, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Nehru', 'start': 22, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99942464, 'index': 13, 'word': 'S', 'start': 39, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99713814, 'index': 14, 'word': '##wara', 'start': 40, 'end': 44}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9980496, 'index': 15, 'word': '##j', 'start': 44, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99896306, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Party', 'start': 46, 'end': 51}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9986988, 'index': 19, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 63, 'end': 71}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9995883, 'index': 5, 'word': 'J', 'start': 25, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9243494, 'index': 6, 'word': '##awa', 'start': 26, 'end': 29}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.88076437, 'index': 7, 'word': '##har', 'start': 29, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.880477, 'index': 8, 'word': '##lal', 'start': 32, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9987216, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Nehru', 'start': 36, 'end': 41}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99962986, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Sub', 'start': 46, 'end': 49}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8413159, 'index': 12, 'word': '##has', 'start': 49, 'end': 52}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99716604, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Chandra', 'start': 53, 'end': 60}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99936354, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Bose', 'start': 61, 'end': 65}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.999688, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 79, 'end': 85}]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9980326, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Tory', 'start': 32, 'end': 36}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9998085, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Britain', 'start': 51, 'end': 58}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9987238, 'index': 12, 'word': 'St', 'start': 73, 'end': 75}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9926557, 'index': 13, 'word': '##at', 'start': 75, 'end': 77}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9968754, 'index': 14, 'word': '##uto', 'start': 77, 'end': 80}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99649906, 'index': 15, 'word': '##ry', 'start': 80, 'end': 82}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99809545, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Commission', 'start': 83, 'end': 93}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9993994, 'index': 19, 'word': 'John', 'start': 104, 'end': 108}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9996466, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Simon', 'start': 109, 'end': 114}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997476, 'index': 23, 'word': 'India', 'start': 128, 'end': 133}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9997095, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 58, 'end': 64}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9996584, 'index': 4, 'word': 'British', 'start': 14, 'end': 21}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99822557, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Simon', 'start': 9, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99770695, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Commission', 'start': 15, 'end': 25}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9998331, 'index': 7, 'word': 'India', 'start': 37, 'end': 42}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.81240475, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Simon', 'start': 92, 'end': 97}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9992873, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 27, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9989673, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Muslim', 'start': 44, 'end': 50}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9990382, 'index': 10, 'word': 'League', 'start': 51, 'end': 57}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9698565, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Irwin', 'start': 49, 'end': 54}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997839, 'index': 32, 'word': 'India', 'start': 122, 'end': 127}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.97837603, 'index': 43, 'word': 'Round', 'start': 160, 'end': 165}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9862762, 'index': 44, 'word': 'Table', 'start': 166, 'end': 171}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9881677, 'index': 45, 'word': 'Conference', 'start': 172, 'end': 182}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99843687, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 25, 'end': 33}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9986792, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 24, 'end': 32}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9966072, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 15, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9991503, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Allah', 'start': 36, 'end': 41}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.99914736, 'index': 9, 'word': '##abad', 'start': 41, 'end': 45}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9996481, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 11, 'end': 13}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9248024, 'index': 4, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 13, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99856216, 'index': 5, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 16, 'end': 18}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9991872, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 19, 'end': 25}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9993657, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Sa', 'start': 39, 'end': 41}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.7501607, 'index': 12, 'word': '##rda', 'start': 41, 'end': 44}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9791251, 'index': 13, 'word': '##r', 'start': 44, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9810067, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Val', 'start': 46, 'end': 49}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9927042, 'index': 15, 'word': '##la', 'start': 49, 'end': 51}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9969083, 'index': 16, 'word': '##b', 'start': 51, 'end': 52}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9855165, 'index': 17, 'word': '##h', 'start': 52, 'end': 53}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99786246, 'index': 18, 'word': '##bha', 'start': 53, 'end': 56}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.87799263, 'index': 19, 'word': '##i', 'start': 56, 'end': 57}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99961495, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Patel', 'start': 58, 'end': 63}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99966884, 'index': 26, 'word': 'J', 'start': 80, 'end': 81}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9984115, 'index': 27, 'word': '##awa', 'start': 81, 'end': 84}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9620876, 'index': 28, 'word': '##har', 'start': 84, 'end': 87}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.94930685, 'index': 29, 'word': '##lal', 'start': 87, 'end': 90}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99956363, 'index': 30, 'word': 'Nehru', 'start': 91, 'end': 96}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99965197, 'index': 36, 'word': 'Sub', 'start': 117, 'end': 120}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.52752215, 'index': 37, 'word': '##has', 'start': 120, 'end': 123}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9989923, 'index': 38, 'word': 'Chandra', 'start': 124, 'end': 131}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9997153, 'index': 39, 'word': 'Bose', 'start': 132, 'end': 136}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.999607, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Lal', 'start': 0, 'end': 3}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.98103297, 'index': 2, 'word': '##a', 'start': 3, 'end': 4}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99950284, 'index': 3, 'word': 'La', 'start': 5, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9986052, 'index': 4, 'word': '##j', 'start': 7, 'end': 8}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99814415, 'index': 5, 'word': '##pa', 'start': 8, 'end': 10}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99715656, 'index': 6, 'word': '##t', 'start': 10, 'end': 11}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9992599, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Rai', 'start': 12, 'end': 15}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9997393, 'index': 12, 'word': 'British', 'start': 37, 'end': 44}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99864113, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Simon', 'start': 96, 'end': 101}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9985441, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Commission', 'start': 102, 'end': 112}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9977266, 'index': 8, 'word': 'India', 'start': 28, 'end': 33}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9988905, 'index': 9, 'word': 'J', 'start': 34, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.7908334, 'index': 10, 'word': '##awa', 'start': 35, 'end': 38}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.6161586, 'index': 11, 'word': '##har', 'start': 38, 'end': 41}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9188703, 'index': 12, 'word': '##lal', 'start': 41, 'end': 44}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9978617, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Nehru', 'start': 45, 'end': 50}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99956393, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Sub', 'start': 55, 'end': 58}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.7544167, 'index': 16, 'word': '##has', 'start': 58, 'end': 61}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.996352, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Chandra', 'start': 62, 'end': 69}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99932253, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Bose', 'start': 70, 'end': 74}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9997657, 'index': 18, 'word': 'British', 'start': 95, 'end': 102}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99953955, 'index': 9, 'word': 'J', 'start': 42, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9870824, 'index': 10, 'word': '##awa', 'start': 43, 'end': 46}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.7374254, 'index': 11, 'word': '##har', 'start': 46, 'end': 49}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.89456224, 'index': 12, 'word': '##lal', 'start': 49, 'end': 52}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99867874, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Nehru', 'start': 53, 'end': 58}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9992189, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Lahore', 'start': 64, 'end': 70}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99863213, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 71, 'end': 79}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.42640406, 'index': 24, 'word': 'P', 'start': 106, 'end': 107}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.7841753, 'index': 25, 'word': '##urn', 'start': 107, 'end': 110}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.46404415, 'index': 26, 'word': '##a', 'start': 110, 'end': 111}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.45881027, 'index': 27, 'word': 'S', 'start': 112, 'end': 113}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.6530864, 'index': 28, 'word': '##wara', 'start': 113, 'end': 117}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.44926035, 'index': 29, 'word': '##j', 'start': 117, 'end': 118}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997497, 'index': 35, 'word': 'India', 'start': 145, 'end': 150}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9950438, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Independence', 'start': 65, 'end': 77}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.997415, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Day', 'start': 78, 'end': 81}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99955654, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 3, 'end': 5}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8123051, 'index': 3, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 5, 'end': 8}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.97988975, 'index': 4, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 8, 'end': 10}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9986686, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 11, 'end': 17}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.98507863, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Salt', 'start': 8, 'end': 12}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9644468, 'index': 6, 'word': 'March', 'start': 13, 'end': 18}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9973935, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 27, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.997078, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 33, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99052113, 'index': 11, 'word': '##so', 'start': 35, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9977008, 'index': 12, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 37, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99380594, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 46, 'end': 54}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99855226, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 55, 'end': 57}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.69481355, 'index': 15, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 57, 'end': 60}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.87625796, 'index': 16, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 60, 'end': 62}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9925655, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 63, 'end': 69}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9781086, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Irwin', 'start': 48, 'end': 53}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99971604, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 74, 'end': 80}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99956024, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 65, 'end': 67}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.97033805, 'index': 14, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 67, 'end': 70}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9946631, 'index': 15, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 70, 'end': 72}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9981618, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 73, 'end': 79}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99968165, 'index': 26, 'word': 'British', 'start': 127, 'end': 134}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99960697, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 0, 'end': 2}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8734282, 'index': 2, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 2, 'end': 5}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9076831, 'index': 3, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 5, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9992535, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 8, 'end': 14}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99913055, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 70, 'end': 78}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99935776, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Irwin', 'start': 0, 'end': 5}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99955505, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 3, 'end': 5}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.81561565, 'index': 3, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 5, 'end': 8}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.96147645, 'index': 4, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 8, 'end': 10}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99923575, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 11, 'end': 17}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9958949, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 35, 'end': 41}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.84821075, 'index': 10, 'word': '##ji', 'start': 41, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9964407, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Sa', 'start': 56, 'end': 58}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.971196, 'index': 17, 'word': '##bar', 'start': 58, 'end': 61}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9437915, 'index': 18, 'word': '##mat', 'start': 61, 'end': 64}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.80782133, 'index': 19, 'word': '##i', 'start': 64, 'end': 65}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99909526, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Gujarat', 'start': 73, 'end': 80}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.5535762, 'index': 23, 'word': '##i', 'start': 80, 'end': 81}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9946823, 'index': 27, 'word': 'Dan', 'start': 98, 'end': 101}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9822846, 'index': 28, 'word': '##di', 'start': 101, 'end': 103}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9994517, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 23, 'end': 25}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.62862825, 'index': 6, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 25, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.95504934, 'index': 7, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 28, 'end': 30}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99874485, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 31, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9996986, 'index': 32, 'word': 'British', 'start': 138, 'end': 145}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9978468, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Dan', 'start': 22, 'end': 25}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.87928283, 'index': 7, 'word': '##di', 'start': 25, 'end': 27}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.95950794, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 33, 'end': 38}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9663804, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 39, 'end': 41}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.82690656, 'index': 9, 'word': '##so', 'start': 41, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9702158, 'index': 10, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 43, 'end': 51}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.8239266, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 52, 'end': 60}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9987702, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 41, 'end': 44}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99835414, 'index': 9, 'word': '-', 'start': 44, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99819183, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 45, 'end': 56}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99873847, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 57, 'end': 65}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9936723, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Independence', 'start': 57, 'end': 69}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9978155, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Day', 'start': 70, 'end': 73}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99284977, 'index': 13, 'word': 'P', 'start': 74, 'end': 75}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.83499086, 'index': 14, 'word': '##ledge', 'start': 75, 'end': 80}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99973285, 'index': 33, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 150, 'end': 156}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99882275, 'index': 2, 'word': 'British', 'start': 4, 'end': 11}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.999633, 'index': 5, 'word': 'India', 'start': 26, 'end': 31}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99966025, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 58, 'end': 64}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997648, 'index': 30, 'word': 'India', 'start': 160, 'end': 165}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997596, 'index': 7, 'word': 'India', 'start': 28, 'end': 33}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99974984, 'index': 12, 'word': 'British', 'start': 49, 'end': 56}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.73942727, 'index': 16, 'word': 'P', 'start': 79, 'end': 80}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.88194096, 'index': 18, 'word': '##a', 'start': 83, 'end': 84}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9643952, 'index': 19, 'word': 'S', 'start': 85, 'end': 86}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9551863, 'index': 20, 'word': '##wara', 'start': 86, 'end': 90}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.94186175, 'index': 21, 'word': '##j', 'start': 90, 'end': 91}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.8308168, 'index': 23, 'word': 'Complete', 'start': 95, 'end': 103}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9433297, 'index': 24, 'word': 'Independence', 'start': 104, 'end': 116}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99975103, 'index': 33, 'word': 'India', 'start': 143, 'end': 148}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9952818, 'index': 36, 'word': 'Contemporary', 'start': 157, 'end': 169}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99878514, 'index': 37, 'word': 'World', 'start': 170, 'end': 175}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9986405, 'index': 38, 'word': '40', 'start': 176, 'end': 178}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9996871, 'index': 41, 'word': 'British', 'start': 188, 'end': 195}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.65091735, 'index': 32, 'word': 'Reserve', 'start': 149, 'end': 156}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.5832589, 'index': 34, 'word': 'Forest', 'start': 158, 'end': 164}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99843717, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 73, 'end': 81}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99972695, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Abdul', 'start': 5, 'end': 10}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9993382, 'index': 3, 'word': 'G', 'start': 11, 'end': 12}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99935466, 'index': 4, 'word': '##ha', 'start': 12, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9976168, 'index': 5, 'word': '##ff', 'start': 14, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9988198, 'index': 6, 'word': '##ar', 'start': 16, 'end': 18}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99955434, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Khan', 'start': 19, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99922854, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 46, 'end': 48}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9543646, 'index': 15, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 48, 'end': 51}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9967119, 'index': 16, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 51, 'end': 53}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99720734, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 54, 'end': 60}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9993572, 'index': 32, 'word': 'P', 'start': 134, 'end': 135}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9989768, 'index': 33, 'word': '##esh', 'start': 135, 'end': 138}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9963312, 'index': 34, 'word': '##awa', 'start': 138, 'end': 141}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9536567, 'index': 35, 'word': '##r', 'start': 141, 'end': 142}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9994607, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 20, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.51462865, 'index': 7, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 22, 'end': 25}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.79719174, 'index': 8, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 25, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99885136, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 28, 'end': 34}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9988803, 'index': 17, 'word': 'S', 'start': 79, 'end': 80}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9713032, 'index': 18, 'word': '##hol', 'start': 80, 'end': 83}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9938189, 'index': 19, 'word': '##ap', 'start': 83, 'end': 85}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.996276, 'index': 20, 'word': '##ur', 'start': 85, 'end': 87}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.999652, 'index': 40, 'word': 'British', 'start': 196, 'end': 203}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9996457, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 21, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.77249634, 'index': 7, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 23, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9632421, 'index': 8, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 26, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9991039, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 29, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99931365, 'index': 24, 'word': 'Irwin', 'start': 109, 'end': 114}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.98148394, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 8, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.7257052, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Irwin', 'start': 15, 'end': 20}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9874443, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Pact', 'start': 21, 'end': 25}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9664979, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 27, 'end': 33}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99566025, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Round', 'start': 66, 'end': 71}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99578154, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Table', 'start': 72, 'end': 77}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9969643, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Conference', 'start': 78, 'end': 88}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99711365, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 94, 'end': 102}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99595463, 'index': 27, 'word': 'Fi', 'start': 127, 'end': 129}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.8873124, 'index': 28, 'word': '##g', 'start': 129, 'end': 130}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.6302584, 'index': 29, 'word': '.', 'start': 130, 'end': 131}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.81124675, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Dan', 'start': 8, 'end': 11}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9993129, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 22, 'end': 24}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.5056967, 'index': 6, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 24, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.83420694, 'index': 7, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 27, 'end': 29}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99884045, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 30, 'end': 36}]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.7797239, 'index': 5, 'word': 'National', 'start': 11, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9882335, 'index': 6, 'word': '##ism', 'start': 19, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9568057, 'index': 7, 'word': 'in', 'start': 24, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9888845, 'index': 8, 'word': 'India', 'start': 28, 'end': 33}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.8876384, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Round', 'start': 34, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99415964, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Table', 'start': 40, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9923481, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Conference', 'start': 46, 'end': 56}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99962735, 'index': 14, 'word': 'London', 'start': 61, 'end': 67}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.98691076, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 18, 'end': 24}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99971586, 'index': 9, 'word': 'London', 'start': 35, 'end': 41}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997991, 'index': 3, 'word': 'India', 'start': 8, 'end': 13}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99976945, 'index': 1, 'word': 'G', 'start': 0, 'end': 1}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.77190715, 'index': 2, 'word': '##ha', 'start': 1, 'end': 3}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.5105076, 'index': 3, 'word': '##ff', 'start': 3, 'end': 5}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8854577, 'index': 4, 'word': '##ar', 'start': 5, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99953693, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Khan', 'start': 8, 'end': 12}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99962527, 'index': 7, 'word': 'J', 'start': 17, 'end': 18}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8669383, 'index': 8, 'word': '##awa', 'start': 18, 'end': 21}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.854934, 'index': 9, 'word': '##har', 'start': 21, 'end': 24}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.8100762, 'index': 10, 'word': '##lal', 'start': 24, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.998037, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Nehru', 'start': 28, 'end': 33}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9988939, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 57, 'end': 65}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9994205, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 25, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.5100772, 'index': 7, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 27, 'end': 30}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.92881465, 'index': 8, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 30, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.998832, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 33, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.999101, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 55, 'end': 60}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99900883, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 61, 'end': 63}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9983025, 'index': 16, 'word': '##so', 'start': 63, 'end': 65}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99905616, 'index': 17, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 65, 'end': 73}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.998486, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 74, 'end': 82}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9917105, 'index': 24, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 110, 'end': 115}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9904631, 'index': 25, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 116, 'end': 118}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9358802, 'index': 26, 'word': '##so', 'start': 118, 'end': 120}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9904675, 'index': 27, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 120, 'end': 128}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.979379, 'index': 28, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 129, 'end': 137}]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.59792864, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Pat', 'start': 56, 'end': 59}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.4562105, 'index': 12, 'word': '##ida', 'start': 59, 'end': 62}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99963474, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Gujarat', 'start': 68, 'end': 75}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9039374, 'index': 18, 'word': 'J', 'start': 84, 'end': 85}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.7463537, 'index': 19, 'word': '##ats', 'start': 85, 'end': 88}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9996073, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Uttar', 'start': 92, 'end': 97}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9993122, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Pradesh', 'start': 98, 'end': 105}]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9984746, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 58, 'end': 63}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9984113, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 64, 'end': 66}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9958262, 'index': 11, 'word': '##so', 'start': 66, 'end': 68}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9985051, 'index': 12, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 68, 'end': 76}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.998124, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 77, 'end': 85}]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.79795974, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Socialist', 'start': 57, 'end': 66}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9904321, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Communists', 'start': 72, 'end': 82}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99899817, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 85, 'end': 93}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99881333, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 54, 'end': 62}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9997181, 'index': 26, 'word': 'British', 'start': 127, 'end': 134}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99928695, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Hindus', 'start': 13, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9985216, 'index': 6, 'word': '##tan', 'start': 19, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9991008, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Socialist', 'start': 23, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.999234, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Republican', 'start': 33, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99908257, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Army', 'start': 44, 'end': 48}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99912727, 'index': 11, 'word': 'H', 'start': 50, 'end': 51}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.800971, 'index': 12, 'word': '##SR', 'start': 51, 'end': 53}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99862266, 'index': 13, 'word': '##A', 'start': 53, 'end': 54}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9448461, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Fe', 'start': 84, 'end': 86}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.67190135, 'index': 22, 'word': '##ro', 'start': 86, 'end': 88}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.5924028, 'index': 23, 'word': '##zes', 'start': 88, 'end': 91}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.97898704, 'index': 24, 'word': '##ha', 'start': 91, 'end': 93}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9704814, 'index': 25, 'word': '##h', 'start': 93, 'end': 94}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9966187, 'index': 26, 'word': 'Ko', 'start': 95, 'end': 97}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9306647, 'index': 27, 'word': '##tl', 'start': 97, 'end': 99}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.97389936, 'index': 28, 'word': '##a', 'start': 99, 'end': 100}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9992884, 'index': 31, 'word': 'Delhi', 'start': 111, 'end': 116}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9996665, 'index': 5, 'word': 'B', 'start': 25, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9962412, 'index': 6, 'word': '##ha', 'start': 26, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9550607, 'index': 7, 'word': '##gat', 'start': 28, 'end': 31}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9994123, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Singh', 'start': 32, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9997161, 'index': 10, 'word': 'J', 'start': 39, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.998269, 'index': 11, 'word': '##ati', 'start': 40, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9935568, 'index': 12, 'word': '##n', 'start': 43, 'end': 44}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99970865, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Das', 'start': 45, 'end': 48}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99968565, 'index': 15, 'word': 'A', 'start': 53, 'end': 54}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99958473, 'index': 16, 'word': '##joy', 'start': 54, 'end': 57}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99962044, 'index': 17, 'word': 'G', 'start': 58, 'end': 59}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99846387, 'index': 18, 'word': '##hos', 'start': 59, 'end': 62}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9687049, 'index': 19, 'word': '##h', 'start': 62, 'end': 63}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9995053, 'index': 11, 'word': 'India', 'start': 54, 'end': 59}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99940485, 'index': 14, 'word': 'H', 'start': 65, 'end': 66}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.50247896, 'index': 15, 'word': '##SR', 'start': 66, 'end': 68}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9982094, 'index': 16, 'word': '##A', 'start': 68, 'end': 69}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99969494, 'index': 23, 'word': 'British', 'start': 102, 'end': 109}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99953574, 'index': 5, 'word': 'B', 'start': 15, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9838189, 'index': 6, 'word': '##ha', 'start': 16, 'end': 18}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8117158, 'index': 7, 'word': '##gat', 'start': 18, 'end': 21}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99935293, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Singh', 'start': 22, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9992901, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Bat', 'start': 32, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.57656354, 'index': 11, 'word': '##uke', 'start': 35, 'end': 38}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.89219534, 'index': 12, 'word': '##s', 'start': 38, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9319182, 'index': 13, 'word': '##war', 'start': 39, 'end': 42}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9975792, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Du', 'start': 43, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.69921345, 'index': 15, 'word': '##tta', 'start': 45, 'end': 48}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9961366, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Legislative', 'start': 69, 'end': 80}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99426615, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Assembly', 'start': 81, 'end': 89}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9430852, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Irwin', 'start': 69, 'end': 74}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99968475, 'index': 1, 'word': 'B', 'start': 0, 'end': 1}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9955038, 'index': 2, 'word': '##ha', 'start': 1, 'end': 3}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9712733, 'index': 3, 'word': '##gat', 'start': 3, 'end': 6}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99878293, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Singh', 'start': 7, 'end': 12}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99963367, 'index': 5, 'word': 'B', 'start': 18, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9838228, 'index': 6, 'word': '##ha', 'start': 19, 'end': 21}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.742448, 'index': 7, 'word': '##gat', 'start': 21, 'end': 24}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9989728, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Singh', 'start': 25, 'end': 30}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.75982, 'index': 36, 'word': 'Revolution', 'start': 141, 'end': 151}]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9724066, 'index': 1, 'word': 'In', 'start': 0, 'end': 2}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.65250915, 'index': 2, 'word': '##quila', 'start': 2, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.5346706, 'index': 3, 'word': '##b', 'start': 7, 'end': 8}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.86778444, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Z', 'start': 9, 'end': 10}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9491337, 'index': 5, 'word': '##inda', 'start': 10, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.8937267, 'index': 6, 'word': '##bad', 'start': 14, 'end': 17}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99710053, 'index': 14, 'word': 'India', 'start': 34, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.88550454, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Contemporary', 'start': 48, 'end': 60}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9916078, 'index': 18, 'word': 'World', 'start': 61, 'end': 66}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99517524, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 27, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9961889, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 33, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9871431, 'index': 9, 'word': '##so', 'start': 35, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.996215, 'index': 10, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 37, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.98944366, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 46, 'end': 54}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99740225, 'index': 3, 'word': 'First', 'start': 11, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9962638, 'index': 4, 'word': 'World', 'start': 17, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9982804, 'index': 5, 'word': 'War', 'start': 23, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.999549, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 28, 'end': 34}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99938005, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 48, 'end': 54}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99920005, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Industrial', 'start': 55, 'end': 65}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9993554, 'index': 11, 'word': 'and', 'start': 66, 'end': 69}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9992793, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Commercial', 'start': 70, 'end': 80}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9986626, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 81, 'end': 89}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9993598, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Federation', 'start': 106, 'end': 116}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99926686, 'index': 19, 'word': 'of', 'start': 117, 'end': 119}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99927586, 'index': 20, 'word': 'the', 'start': 120, 'end': 123}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9992049, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 124, 'end': 130}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99929243, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Chamber', 'start': 131, 'end': 138}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.999448, 'index': 23, 'word': 'of', 'start': 139, 'end': 141}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99945235, 'index': 24, 'word': 'Commerce', 'start': 142, 'end': 150}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9993652, 'index': 25, 'word': 'and', 'start': 151, 'end': 154}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9993028, 'index': 26, 'word': 'Industries', 'start': 155, 'end': 165}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99927187, 'index': 28, 'word': 'F', 'start': 167, 'end': 168}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99909604, 'index': 29, 'word': '##IC', 'start': 168, 'end': 170}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99866617, 'index': 30, 'word': '##CI', 'start': 170, 'end': 172}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9994207, 'index': 7, 'word': 'P', 'start': 37, 'end': 38}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9968833, 'index': 8, 'word': '##urs', 'start': 38, 'end': 41}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.6428399, 'index': 9, 'word': '##hot', 'start': 41, 'end': 44}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.6955254, 'index': 10, 'word': '##tam', 'start': 44, 'end': 47}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9895989, 'index': 11, 'word': '##das', 'start': 47, 'end': 50}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99918705, 'index': 12, 'word': 'T', 'start': 51, 'end': 52}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9951851, 'index': 13, 'word': '##hak', 'start': 52, 'end': 55}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9408421, 'index': 14, 'word': '##ur', 'start': 55, 'end': 57}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99254626, 'index': 15, 'word': '##das', 'start': 57, 'end': 60}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99951077, 'index': 17, 'word': 'G', 'start': 65, 'end': 66}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9636692, 'index': 18, 'word': '.', 'start': 66, 'end': 67}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.97952616, 'index': 19, 'word': 'D', 'start': 68, 'end': 69}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.39702016, 'index': 20, 'word': '.', 'start': 69, 'end': 70}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9972993, 'index': 21, 'word': 'B', 'start': 71, 'end': 72}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.957814, 'index': 22, 'word': '##ir', 'start': 72, 'end': 74}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9918932, 'index': 23, 'word': '##la', 'start': 74, 'end': 76}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99974257, 'index': 33, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 132, 'end': 138}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99786216, 'index': 39, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 166, 'end': 171}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9985517, 'index': 40, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 172, 'end': 174}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99655455, 'index': 41, 'word': '##so', 'start': 174, 'end': 176}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9984997, 'index': 42, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 176, 'end': 184}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9973592, 'index': 43, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 185, 'end': 193}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9968884, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Round', 'start': 29, 'end': 34}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9977757, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Table', 'start': 35, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9983793, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Conference', 'start': 41, 'end': 51}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9982606, 'index': 37, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 197, 'end': 205}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.94096494, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 58, 'end': 63}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.946482, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 64, 'end': 66}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.82570237, 'index': 12, 'word': '##so', 'start': 66, 'end': 68}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.958454, 'index': 13, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 68, 'end': 76}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.7798765, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 77, 'end': 85}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.998792, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Na', 'start': 118, 'end': 120}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.867418, 'index': 23, 'word': '##g', 'start': 120, 'end': 121}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9252087, 'index': 24, 'word': '##pur', 'start': 121, 'end': 124}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9987611, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 41, 'end': 49}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99819934, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 58, 'end': 63}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99815124, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 64, 'end': 66}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9946224, 'index': 15, 'word': '##so', 'start': 66, 'end': 68}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9981559, 'index': 16, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 68, 'end': 76}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9971262, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 77, 'end': 85}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99436873, 'index': 28, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 133, 'end': 139}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.8538765, 'index': 29, 'word': '##an', 'start': 139, 'end': 141}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99860334, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Cho', 'start': 32, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.84992236, 'index': 8, 'word': '##tana', 'start': 35, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9214307, 'index': 9, 'word': '##g', 'start': 39, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9874378, 'index': 10, 'word': '##pur', 'start': 40, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9813371, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 59, 'end': 65}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9985028, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 8, 'end': 16}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99527085, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 33, 'end': 38}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.996451, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 39, 'end': 41}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9870394, 'index': 8, 'word': '##so', 'start': 41, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99600846, 'index': 9, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 43, 'end': 51}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99193054, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 52, 'end': 60}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9876069, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 7, 'end': 13}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9064951, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 90, 'end': 92}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.73461413, 'index': 20, 'word': '##ressed', 'start': 94, 'end': 100}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9818999, 'index': 21, 'word': 'UP', 'start': 101, 'end': 103}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9990252, 'index': 25, 'word': 'Baba', 'start': 126, 'end': 130}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9978524, 'index': 26, 'word': 'Ram', 'start': 131, 'end': 134}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99790204, 'index': 27, 'word': '##chan', 'start': 134, 'end': 138}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.89494836, 'index': 28, 'word': '##dra', 'start': 138, 'end': 141}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9722099, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 11, 'end': 17}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.77412957, 'index': 4, 'word': '##an', 'start': 17, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.7098433, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Row', 'start': 35, 'end': 38}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.44595525, 'index': 10, 'word': '##latt', 'start': 38, 'end': 42}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.8639717, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Act', 'start': 43, 'end': 46}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9600492, 'index': 13, 'word': 'J', 'start': 48, 'end': 49}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.47985262, 'index': 14, 'word': '##all', 'start': 49, 'end': 52}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9509407, 'index': 15, 'word': '##ian', 'start': 52, 'end': 55}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9816063, 'index': 16, 'word': '##wala', 'start': 55, 'end': 59}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.98433894, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Ba', 'start': 60, 'end': 62}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9570312, 'index': 18, 'word': '##gh', 'start': 62, 'end': 64}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.93125594, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 13, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9527769, 'index': 4, 'word': '-', 'start': 16, 'end': 17}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9396705, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 17, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.98978466, 'index': 6, 'word': 'and', 'start': 29, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.96369123, 'index': 7, 'word': 'K', 'start': 33, 'end': 34}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.87096554, 'index': 8, 'word': '##hil', 'start': 34, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.96803343, 'index': 9, 'word': '##af', 'start': 37, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.96754414, 'index': 10, 'word': '##at', 'start': 39, 'end': 41}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99900633, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Cha', 'start': 14, 'end': 17}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9751587, 'index': 4, 'word': '##uri', 'start': 17, 'end': 20}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99925065, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Cha', 'start': 21, 'end': 24}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.95669997, 'index': 6, 'word': '##ura', 'start': 24, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.95743316, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 29, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.64206946, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 48, 'end': 51}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.69599664, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 53, 'end': 64}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99842286, 'index': 3, 'word': 'All', 'start': 9, 'end': 12}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.7671414, 'index': 4, 'word': '##uri', 'start': 12, 'end': 15}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99828905, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Sit', 'start': 16, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.98801935, 'index': 6, 'word': '##ara', 'start': 19, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99070424, 'index': 7, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 22, 'end': 24}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9924893, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Raj', 'start': 25, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.6208172, 'index': 9, 'word': '##u', 'start': 28, 'end': 29}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9988579, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Lahore', 'start': 14, 'end': 20}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9943452, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 21, 'end': 29}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9993096, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 31, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.6767633, 'index': 13, 'word': 'P', 'start': 63, 'end': 64}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.31273928, 'index': 14, 'word': '##urn', 'start': 64, 'end': 67}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.3551298, 'index': 15, 'word': '##a', 'start': 67, 'end': 68}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.81403875, 'index': 16, 'word': 'S', 'start': 69, 'end': 70}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.607634, 'index': 17, 'word': '##wara', 'start': 70, 'end': 74}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.43230283, 'index': 18, 'word': '##j', 'start': 74, 'end': 75}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9988423, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Am', 'start': 5, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.59101045, 'index': 3, 'word': '##bed', 'start': 7, 'end': 10}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.96027917, 'index': 4, 'word': '##kar', 'start': 10, 'end': 13}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9986614, 'index': 6, 'word': 'De', 'start': 26, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9984899, 'index': 7, 'word': '##pressed', 'start': 28, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9987722, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Class', 'start': 36, 'end': 41}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9989957, 'index': 9, 'word': '##es', 'start': 41, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99821776, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Association', 'start': 44, 'end': 55}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9404229, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 11, 'end': 17}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99342996, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 27, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9965463, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 33, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9878901, 'index': 8, 'word': '##so', 'start': 35, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.996779, 'index': 9, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 37, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.994288, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 46, 'end': 54}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9966246, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Dan', 'start': 79, 'end': 82}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.58574677, 'index': 17, 'word': '##di', 'start': 82, 'end': 84}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.5487965, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 11, 'end': 17}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99872553, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 25, 'end': 30}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99885017, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 31, 'end': 33}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99717474, 'index': 8, 'word': '##so', 'start': 33, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9989835, 'index': 9, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 35, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9984177, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 44, 'end': 52}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.94102585, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Second', 'start': 14, 'end': 20}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9933763, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Round', 'start': 21, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99814093, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Table', 'start': 27, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9969995, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Conference', 'start': 33, 'end': 43}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.8395571, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 5, 'end': 10}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.8770332, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 11, 'end': 13}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9332014, 'index': 5, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 15, 'end': 23}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.98998654, 'index': 8, 'word': 'India', 'start': 28, 'end': 33}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.80692816, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 9, 'end': 15}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99561346, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 0, 'end': 6}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9985659, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 24, 'end': 32}]
[]
[{'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.94463027, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 18, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9954994, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 24, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9220862, 'index': 10, 'word': '##so', 'start': 26, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.97882164, 'index': 11, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 28, 'end': 36}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99884456, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 13, 'end': 21}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99714804, 'index': 28, 'word': 'Hindus', 'start': 111, 'end': 117}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9995758, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 4, 'end': 6}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.89070576, 'index': 3, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 6, 'end': 9}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9660838, 'index': 4, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 9, 'end': 11}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9989567, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 12, 'end': 18}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99943507, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Indians', 'start': 76, 'end': 83}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.98481673, 'index': 24, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 103, 'end': 108}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9901333, 'index': 25, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 109, 'end': 111}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.94787484, 'index': 26, 'word': '##so', 'start': 111, 'end': 113}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9890909, 'index': 27, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 113, 'end': 121}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9759593, 'index': 28, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 122, 'end': 130}]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9996906, 'index': 4, 'word': 'India', 'start': 8, 'end': 13}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9746758, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Contemporary', 'start': 22, 'end': 34}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99646324, 'index': 8, 'word': 'World', 'start': 35, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9766873, 'index': 9, 'word': '44', 'start': 41, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.990279, 'index': 14, 'word': 'God', 'start': 63, 'end': 66}]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99815357, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 27, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9985608, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 33, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9962632, 'index': 8, 'word': '##so', 'start': 35, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9984419, 'index': 9, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 37, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9975969, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 46, 'end': 54}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99967945, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Maharashtra', 'start': 98, 'end': 109}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9991265, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Na', 'start': 114, 'end': 116}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.88456726, 'index': 21, 'word': '##g', 'start': 116, 'end': 117}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9755701, 'index': 22, 'word': '##pur', 'start': 117, 'end': 120}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9974945, 'index': 2, 'word': 'B', 'start': 3, 'end': 4}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.6109447, 'index': 4, 'word': 'R', 'start': 5, 'end': 6}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99961025, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Am', 'start': 0, 'end': 2}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.5371545, 'index': 2, 'word': '##bed', 'start': 2, 'end': 5}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.98670876, 'index': 3, 'word': '##kar', 'start': 5, 'end': 8}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9971057, 'index': 13, 'word': 'De', 'start': 44, 'end': 46}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99715555, 'index': 14, 'word': '##pressed', 'start': 46, 'end': 53}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9984559, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Class', 'start': 54, 'end': 59}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99907595, 'index': 16, 'word': '##es', 'start': 59, 'end': 61}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99856853, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Association', 'start': 62, 'end': 73}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99933404, 'index': 23, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 96, 'end': 98}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.7502559, 'index': 24, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 98, 'end': 101}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9923009, 'index': 25, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 101, 'end': 103}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9990866, 'index': 26, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 104, 'end': 110}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.97510916, 'index': 30, 'word': 'Round', 'start': 125, 'end': 130}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9653747, 'index': 31, 'word': 'Table', 'start': 131, 'end': 136}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.98512334, 'index': 32, 'word': 'Conference', 'start': 137, 'end': 147}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.999685, 'index': 3, 'word': 'British', 'start': 9, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99940413, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Am', 'start': 37, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9217479, 'index': 7, 'word': '##bed', 'start': 39, 'end': 42}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.88800865, 'index': 8, 'word': '##kar', 'start': 42, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9980833, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 56, 'end': 62}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9994869, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Am', 'start': 0, 'end': 2}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.7527937, 'index': 2, 'word': '##bed', 'start': 2, 'end': 5}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9015106, 'index': 3, 'word': '##kar', 'start': 5, 'end': 8}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9909436, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 29, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.5120647, 'index': 7, 'word': '##ji', 'start': 35, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.96407855, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Po', 'start': 72, 'end': 74}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9866851, 'index': 17, 'word': '##ona', 'start': 74, 'end': 77}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9920495, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Pact', 'start': 78, 'end': 82}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.95497113, 'index': 4, 'word': 'De', 'start': 12, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.619511, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Schedule', 'start': 56, 'end': 64}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.7994936, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Cast', 'start': 65, 'end': 69}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.5780842, 'index': 17, 'word': '##es', 'start': 69, 'end': 71}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9987085, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 65, 'end': 73}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9996805, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Muslim', 'start': 12, 'end': 18}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997963, 'index': 8, 'word': 'India', 'start': 46, 'end': 51}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.998963, 'index': 19, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 96, 'end': 101}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99890894, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 102, 'end': 104}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9979024, 'index': 21, 'word': '##so', 'start': 104, 'end': 106}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99891555, 'index': 22, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 106, 'end': 114}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9985719, 'index': 23, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 115, 'end': 123}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.59520745, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 25, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.8164632, 'index': 7, 'word': '-', 'start': 28, 'end': 29}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.95186883, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 29, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9397824, 'index': 10, 'word': 'K', 'start': 41, 'end': 42}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.41491202, 'index': 11, 'word': '##hil', 'start': 42, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.4639251, 'index': 12, 'word': '##af', 'start': 45, 'end': 47}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.4816813, 'index': 13, 'word': '##at', 'start': 47, 'end': 49}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99951285, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Muslims', 'start': 79, 'end': 86}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9976898, 'index': 26, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 111, 'end': 119}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99836546, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 23, 'end': 31}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99964005, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Hindu', 'start': 79, 'end': 84}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9818949, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Hindu', 'start': 123, 'end': 128}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.7106572, 'index': 23, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 129, 'end': 131}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.67737246, 'index': 24, 'word': '##hasa', 'start': 131, 'end': 135}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.8954302, 'index': 25, 'word': '##bha', 'start': 135, 'end': 138}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99920785, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Hindus', 'start': 21, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99933964, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Muslims', 'start': 32, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9996707, 'index': 24, 'word': 'Hindu', 'start': 130, 'end': 135}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99568474, 'index': 26, 'word': 'Muslim', 'start': 136, 'end': 142}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9991721, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 4, 'end': 12}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9991661, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Muslim', 'start': 21, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99910706, 'index': 6, 'word': 'League', 'start': 28, 'end': 34}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99915475, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Muhammad', 'start': 0, 'end': 8}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9944032, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Ali', 'start': 9, 'end': 12}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.999634, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 5, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9528142, 'index': 4, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 7, 'end': 10}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99805415, 'index': 5, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 10, 'end': 12}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.999344, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 13, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9996362, 'index': 8, 'word': 'J', 'start': 21, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9793856, 'index': 9, 'word': '##awa', 'start': 22, 'end': 25}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.96255493, 'index': 10, 'word': '##har', 'start': 25, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.74166673, 'index': 11, 'word': '##lal', 'start': 28, 'end': 31}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99371356, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Nehru', 'start': 32, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9997227, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 42, 'end': 44}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.98133475, 'index': 15, 'word': '##ula', 'start': 44, 'end': 47}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9973201, 'index': 16, 'word': '##na', 'start': 47, 'end': 49}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9996116, 'index': 17, 'word': 'A', 'start': 50, 'end': 51}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9980416, 'index': 18, 'word': '##zad', 'start': 51, 'end': 54}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9860398, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Se', 'start': 58, 'end': 60}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.91495746, 'index': 21, 'word': '##va', 'start': 60, 'end': 62}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.99374646, 'index': 22, 'word': '##gram', 'start': 62, 'end': 66}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9977907, 'index': 23, 'word': 'Ash', 'start': 67, 'end': 70}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9983322, 'index': 24, 'word': '##ram', 'start': 70, 'end': 73}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9970828, 'index': 26, 'word': 'Ward', 'start': 75, 'end': 79}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.98743165, 'index': 27, 'word': '##ha', 'start': 79, 'end': 81}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9952479, 'index': 8, 'word': 'India', 'start': 28, 'end': 33}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9990265, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Jin', 'start': 34, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9879974, 'index': 10, 'word': '##nah', 'start': 37, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9992051, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Muslim', 'start': 68, 'end': 74}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9990507, 'index': 19, 'word': 'League', 'start': 75, 'end': 81}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9988842, 'index': 34, 'word': 'Muslims', 'start': 146, 'end': 153}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9985054, 'index': 41, 'word': 'Central', 'start': 189, 'end': 196}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99905664, 'index': 42, 'word': 'Assembly', 'start': 197, 'end': 205}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9959766, 'index': 51, 'word': 'Muslim', 'start': 260, 'end': 266}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99961686, 'index': 56, 'word': 'Bengal', 'start': 288, 'end': 294}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99951535, 'index': 58, 'word': 'Punjab', 'start': 299, 'end': 305}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9239558, 'index': 22, 'word': 'All', 'start': 102, 'end': 105}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9773707, 'index': 23, 'word': 'Parties', 'start': 106, 'end': 113}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99587405, 'index': 24, 'word': 'Conference', 'start': 114, 'end': 124}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.49855906, 'index': 29, 'word': 'M', 'start': 150, 'end': 151}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.5747153, 'index': 31, 'word': 'R', 'start': 152, 'end': 153}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99934685, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Jaya', 'start': 0, 'end': 4}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99635327, 'index': 2, 'word': '##kar', 'start': 4, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.82090974, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Hindu', 'start': 15, 'end': 20}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9507726, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 21, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9131974, 'index': 7, 'word': '##hasa', 'start': 23, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.95380366, 'index': 8, 'word': '##bha', 'start': 27, 'end': 30}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99403864, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 9, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99368995, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 15, 'end': 17}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99042344, 'index': 5, 'word': '##so', 'start': 17, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9946166, 'index': 6, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 19, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9901562, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 28, 'end': 36}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9970832, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 19, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99950135, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Muslims', 'start': 47, 'end': 54}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9996552, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Muslim', 'start': 5, 'end': 11}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9995828, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Muslims', 'start': 82, 'end': 89}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997473, 'index': 18, 'word': 'India', 'start': 111, 'end': 116}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99947524, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Hindu', 'start': 101, 'end': 106}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9990137, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Muhammad', 'start': 13, 'end': 21}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99970293, 'index': 6, 'word': 'I', 'start': 22, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.999625, 'index': 7, 'word': '##q', 'start': 23, 'end': 24}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99962354, 'index': 8, 'word': '##bal', 'start': 24, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9993422, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Muslim', 'start': 49, 'end': 55}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.998993, 'index': 15, 'word': 'League', 'start': 56, 'end': 62}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99963516, 'index': 28, 'word': 'Muslims', 'start': 122, 'end': 129}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997193, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Pakistan', 'start': 82, 'end': 90}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9996861, 'index': 20, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 88, 'end': 94}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.7649481, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Muslim', 'start': 95, 'end': 101}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99971056, 'index': 41, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 200, 'end': 206}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9995318, 'index': 68, 'word': 'India', 'start': 334, 'end': 339}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99119693, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Quran', 'start': 53, 'end': 58}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.538299, 'index': 53, 'word': 'Co', 'start': 261, 'end': 263}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.691776, 'index': 56, 'word': '##lis', 'start': 268, 'end': 271}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.999798, 'index': 83, 'word': 'India', 'start': 375, 'end': 380}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9996868, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 13, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99969804, 'index': 11, 'word': 'European', 'start': 54, 'end': 62}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9997021, 'index': 17, 'word': 'European', 'start': 92, 'end': 100}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99982816, 'index': 23, 'word': 'India', 'start': 132, 'end': 137}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9997309, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Muslim', 'start': 4, 'end': 10}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99929243, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Muslim', 'start': 40, 'end': 46}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.7342672, 'index': 10, 'word': 'India', 'start': 47, 'end': 52}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997677, 'index': 12, 'word': 'India', 'start': 60, 'end': 65}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9996868, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Hindu', 'start': 107, 'end': 112}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997236, 'index': 1, 'word': 'India', 'start': 0, 'end': 5}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9996245, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Muslims', 'start': 52, 'end': 59}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99882096, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Punjab', 'start': 100, 'end': 106}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9995951, 'index': 5, 'word': 'I', 'start': 18, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.69607055, 'index': 6, 'word': '##q', 'start': 19, 'end': 20}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.62820715, 'index': 7, 'word': '##bal', 'start': 20, 'end': 23}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99968296, 'index': 6, 'word': 'India', 'start': 16, 'end': 21}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.8432276, 'index': 10, 'word': 'World', 'start': 43, 'end': 48}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.621123, 'index': 21, 'word': '##ism', 'start': 97, 'end': 100}]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9157567, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Ba', 'start': 5, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.49971572, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Gang', 'start': 9, 'end': 13}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.7739822, 'index': 6, 'word': '##ad', 'start': 13, 'end': 15}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.6787216, 'index': 7, 'word': '##har', 'start': 15, 'end': 18}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.74249524, 'index': 8, 'word': 'T', 'start': 19, 'end': 20}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.36969736, 'index': 9, 'word': '##ila', 'start': 20, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.75435364, 'index': 10, 'word': '##k', 'start': 23, 'end': 24}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9152275, 'index': 4, 'word': 'T', 'start': 11, 'end': 12}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.60552335, 'index': 5, 'word': '##ila', 'start': 12, 'end': 15}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.8294575, 'index': 6, 'word': '##k', 'start': 15, 'end': 16}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99756, 'index': 8, 'word': 'India', 'start': 28, 'end': 33}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9998003, 'index': 18, 'word': 'India', 'start': 86, 'end': 91}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.95160866, 'index': 28, 'word': 'B', 'start': 141, 'end': 142}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.6951036, 'index': 29, 'word': '##hara', 'start': 142, 'end': 146}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.5404579, 'index': 30, 'word': '##t', 'start': 146, 'end': 147}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.80941117, 'index': 31, 'word': 'Mata', 'start': 148, 'end': 152}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99963194, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Bank', 'start': 31, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.7660614, 'index': 8, 'word': '##im', 'start': 35, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9991801, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Chandra', 'start': 38, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9995138, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Cha', 'start': 46, 'end': 49}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9455579, 'index': 11, 'word': '##tto', 'start': 49, 'end': 52}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9860115, 'index': 12, 'word': '##pad', 'start': 52, 'end': 55}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.94798845, 'index': 13, 'word': '##hya', 'start': 55, 'end': 58}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.76341105, 'index': 14, 'word': '##y', 'start': 58, 'end': 59}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9474472, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Van', 'start': 23, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.8970175, 'index': 8, 'word': '##de', 'start': 26, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.882059, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Mata', 'start': 29, 'end': 33}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9029867, 'index': 10, 'word': '##ram', 'start': 33, 'end': 36}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.69280857, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Anand', 'start': 35, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.8464731, 'index': 9, 'word': '##ama', 'start': 40, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9942512, 'index': 16, 'word': 'S', 'start': 73, 'end': 74}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.5374671, 'index': 17, 'word': '##wa', 'start': 74, 'end': 76}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.80416334, 'index': 18, 'word': '##des', 'start': 76, 'end': 79}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9317682, 'index': 19, 'word': '##hi', 'start': 79, 'end': 81}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99973667, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Bengal', 'start': 94, 'end': 100}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9946018, 'index': 5, 'word': 'S', 'start': 13, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.6179356, 'index': 6, 'word': '##wa', 'start': 14, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.6073261, 'index': 7, 'word': '##des', 'start': 16, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9398582, 'index': 8, 'word': '##hi', 'start': 19, 'end': 21}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99954736, 'index': 11, 'word': 'A', 'start': 32, 'end': 33}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99007237, 'index': 12, 'word': '##ban', 'start': 33, 'end': 36}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9968555, 'index': 13, 'word': '##ind', 'start': 36, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.93749017, 'index': 14, 'word': '##rana', 'start': 39, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.82663137, 'index': 15, 'word': '##th', 'start': 43, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9995558, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Tag', 'start': 46, 'end': 49}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99585295, 'index': 17, 'word': '##ore', 'start': 49, 'end': 52}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.6195203, 'index': 23, 'word': 'B', 'start': 81, 'end': 82}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.7467173, 'index': 24, 'word': '##hara', 'start': 82, 'end': 86}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.65102017, 'index': 25, 'word': '##t', 'start': 86, 'end': 87}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.6223286, 'index': 26, 'word': 'Mata', 'start': 88, 'end': 92}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99209744, 'index': 4, 'word': 'B', 'start': 17, 'end': 18}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.6104793, 'index': 5, 'word': '##hara', 'start': 18, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.74873495, 'index': 6, 'word': '##t', 'start': 22, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9367374, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Mata', 'start': 24, 'end': 28}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.94970554, 'index': 8, 'word': 'B', 'start': 34, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.5293767, 'index': 9, 'word': '##hara', 'start': 35, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8346738, 'index': 10, 'word': '##t', 'start': 39, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9060961, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Mata', 'start': 41, 'end': 45}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9997182, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 65, 'end': 71}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9996559, 'index': 7, 'word': 'India', 'start': 27, 'end': 32}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99976254, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Bengal', 'start': 3, 'end': 9}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9997008, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Ra', 'start': 11, 'end': 13}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9941449, 'index': 5, 'word': '##bin', 'start': 13, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.8339462, 'index': 6, 'word': '##dra', 'start': 16, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.97138155, 'index': 7, 'word': '##nath', 'start': 19, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99945176, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Tag', 'start': 24, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9969948, 'index': 9, 'word': '##ore', 'start': 27, 'end': 30}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99636257, 'index': 3, 'word': 'B', 'start': 5, 'end': 6}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.93789124, 'index': 4, 'word': '##hara', 'start': 6, 'end': 10}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9248513, 'index': 5, 'word': '##t', 'start': 10, 'end': 11}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9887258, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Mata', 'start': 12, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9978464, 'index': 8, 'word': 'A', 'start': 18, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.930763, 'index': 9, 'word': '##ban', 'start': 19, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.939041, 'index': 10, 'word': '##ind', 'start': 22, 'end': 25}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.5798009, 'index': 11, 'word': '##rana', 'start': 25, 'end': 29}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.48034912, 'index': 12, 'word': '##th', 'start': 29, 'end': 31}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9970651, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Tag', 'start': 32, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.90886605, 'index': 14, 'word': '##ore', 'start': 35, 'end': 38}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9996895, 'index': 1, 'word': 'A', 'start': 0, 'end': 1}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99740446, 'index': 2, 'word': '##ban', 'start': 1, 'end': 4}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9983134, 'index': 3, 'word': '##ind', 'start': 4, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9690404, 'index': 4, 'word': '##rana', 'start': 7, 'end': 11}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9617943, 'index': 5, 'word': '##th', 'start': 11, 'end': 13}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9995545, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Tag', 'start': 14, 'end': 17}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9960876, 'index': 7, 'word': '##ore', 'start': 17, 'end': 20}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99970037, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Ravi', 'start': 27, 'end': 31}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99927074, 'index': 11, 'word': 'V', 'start': 32, 'end': 33}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99915683, 'index': 12, 'word': '##arma', 'start': 33, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9996837, 'index': 29, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 115, 'end': 121}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9984526, 'index': 3, 'word': 'J', 'start': 5, 'end': 6}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8871064, 'index': 4, 'word': '##awa', 'start': 6, 'end': 9}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.86755556, 'index': 5, 'word': '##har', 'start': 9, 'end': 12}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.74563396, 'index': 6, 'word': '##lal', 'start': 12, 'end': 15}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9870832, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Nehru', 'start': 16, 'end': 21}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9989306, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Nehru', 'start': 0, 'end': 5}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.97007596, 'index': 9, 'word': 'B', 'start': 41, 'end': 42}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.7581293, 'index': 10, 'word': '##hara', 'start': 42, 'end': 46}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8310888, 'index': 11, 'word': '##t', 'start': 46, 'end': 47}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9412709, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Mata', 'start': 48, 'end': 52}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9996924, 'index': 17, 'word': 'India', 'start': 68, 'end': 73}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.94777817, 'index': 16, 'word': 'B', 'start': 82, 'end': 83}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.79305655, 'index': 17, 'word': '##hara', 'start': 83, 'end': 87}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.7962964, 'index': 18, 'word': '##t', 'start': 87, 'end': 88}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.89890337, 'index': 19, 'word': 'Mata', 'start': 89, 'end': 93}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9994401, 'index': 4, 'word': 'India', 'start': 8, 'end': 13}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.950489, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Contemporary', 'start': 22, 'end': 34}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99471974, 'index': 8, 'word': 'World', 'start': 35, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997784, 'index': 18, 'word': 'India', 'start': 85, 'end': 90}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.53696424, 'index': 36, 'word': 'A', 'start': 163, 'end': 164}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.34142265, 'index': 37, 'word': '##rya', 'start': 164, 'end': 167}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9987794, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Hindus', 'start': 14, 'end': 20}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9983215, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Ta', 'start': 72, 'end': 74}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.98608327, 'index': 17, 'word': '##rta', 'start': 74, 'end': 77}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9903228, 'index': 18, 'word': '##r', 'start': 77, 'end': 78}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9998047, 'index': 20, 'word': 'China', 'start': 80, 'end': 85}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997277, 'index': 43, 'word': 'India', 'start': 186, 'end': 191}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.999242, 'index': 46, 'word': 'Ta', 'start': 194, 'end': 196}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9690222, 'index': 47, 'word': '##rini', 'start': 196, 'end': 200}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9907971, 'index': 48, 'word': '##cha', 'start': 200, 'end': 203}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.5868019, 'index': 49, 'word': '##ran', 'start': 203, 'end': 206}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9989995, 'index': 50, 'word': 'Cha', 'start': 207, 'end': 210}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.89193475, 'index': 51, 'word': '##tto', 'start': 210, 'end': 213}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.96255755, 'index': 52, 'word': '##pad', 'start': 213, 'end': 216}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.7103985, 'index': 53, 'word': '##hya', 'start': 216, 'end': 219}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.729165, 'index': 56, 'word': 'B', 'start': 222, 'end': 223}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.89849675, 'index': 57, 'word': '##hara', 'start': 223, 'end': 227}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.37378424, 'index': 60, 'word': '##sher', 'start': 231, 'end': 235}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.97782785, 'index': 61, 'word': 'It', 'start': 236, 'end': 238}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.7594412, 'index': 62, 'word': '##ih', 'start': 238, 'end': 240}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.5895818, 'index': 65, 'word': 'The', 'start': 244, 'end': 247}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.851457, 'index': 66, 'word': 'History', 'start': 248, 'end': 255}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.96771103, 'index': 67, 'word': 'of', 'start': 256, 'end': 258}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.7546814, 'index': 68, 'word': 'B', 'start': 259, 'end': 260}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9153938, 'index': 69, 'word': '##hara', 'start': 260, 'end': 264}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.82059896, 'index': 70, 'word': '##t', 'start': 264, 'end': 265}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.6217498, 'index': 71, 'word': '##bar', 'start': 265, 'end': 268}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.6320004, 'index': 72, 'word': '##sh', 'start': 268, 'end': 270}]
[]
[{'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9417369, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Source', 'start': 9, 'end': 15}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99960023, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Madras', 'start': 3, 'end': 9}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9292902, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Nate', 'start': 11, 'end': 15}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.5376019, 'index': 5, 'word': '##sa', 'start': 15, 'end': 17}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.969499, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Sa', 'start': 18, 'end': 20}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9626465, 'index': 7, 'word': '##st', 'start': 20, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.49078393, 'index': 8, 'word': '##ri', 'start': 22, 'end': 24}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9996663, 'index': 17, 'word': 'Tamil', 'start': 71, 'end': 76}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.97145337, 'index': 21, 'word': 'The', 'start': 89, 'end': 92}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9887932, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Folk', 'start': 93, 'end': 97}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9923003, 'index': 23, 'word': '##lore', 'start': 97, 'end': 101}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99090195, 'index': 24, 'word': 'of', 'start': 102, 'end': 104}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9962092, 'index': 25, 'word': 'Southern', 'start': 106, 'end': 114}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9966117, 'index': 26, 'word': 'India', 'start': 115, 'end': 120}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9972777, 'index': 3, 'word': 'S', 'start': 11, 'end': 12}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.66311806, 'index': 4, 'word': '##wa', 'start': 12, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.5814356, 'index': 5, 'word': '##des', 'start': 14, 'end': 17}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.95439154, 'index': 6, 'word': '##hi', 'start': 17, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.999776, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Bengal', 'start': 32, 'end': 38}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9234602, 'index': 10, 'word': 'British', 'start': 53, 'end': 60}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.98802704, 'index': 11, 'word': 'India', 'start': 61, 'end': 66}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9979877, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Hindus', 'start': 102, 'end': 108}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99859506, 'index': 23, 'word': 'Muslims', 'start': 113, 'end': 120}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9678942, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 9, 'end': 15}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.7887854, 'index': 9, 'word': 'S', 'start': 35, 'end': 36}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.6194615, 'index': 10, 'word': '##wara', 'start': 36, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.57765996, 'index': 11, 'word': '##j', 'start': 40, 'end': 41}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9858428, 'index': 27, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 105, 'end': 111}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.6861, 'index': 28, 'word': '##an', 'start': 111, 'end': 113}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99948406, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Indians', 'start': 42, 'end': 49}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9996813, 'index': 25, 'word': 'Indian', 'start': 112, 'end': 118}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99962544, 'index': 2, 'word': 'British', 'start': 4, 'end': 11}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99932355, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Indians', 'start': 16, 'end': 23}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99962825, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Indians', 'start': 13, 'end': 20}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99981505, 'index': 12, 'word': 'India', 'start': 61, 'end': 66}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9998082, 'index': 18, 'word': 'India', 'start': 78, 'end': 83}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99982387, 'index': 11, 'word': 'India', 'start': 63, 'end': 68}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9997232, 'index': 29, 'word': 'British', 'start': 164, 'end': 171}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99969274, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Hindu', 'start': 34, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9997141, 'index': 18, 'word': 'Hindu', 'start': 84, 'end': 89}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.81890535, 'index': 4, 'word': 'B', 'start': 6, 'end': 7}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.8185784, 'index': 5, 'word': '##hara', 'start': 7, 'end': 11}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.8186523, 'index': 6, 'word': '##t', 'start': 11, 'end': 12}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.6142816, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Mata', 'start': 13, 'end': 17}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9147625, 'index': 4, 'word': 'B', 'start': 15, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.5437913, 'index': 5, 'word': '##hara', 'start': 16, 'end': 20}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.7960302, 'index': 6, 'word': '##t', 'start': 20, 'end': 21}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.7642695, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Mata', 'start': 22, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9989611, 'index': 16, 'word': 'A', 'start': 63, 'end': 64}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9952267, 'index': 17, 'word': '##ban', 'start': 64, 'end': 67}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9940248, 'index': 18, 'word': '##ind', 'start': 67, 'end': 70}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.8358702, 'index': 19, 'word': '##rana', 'start': 70, 'end': 74}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.6861668, 'index': 20, 'word': '##th', 'start': 74, 'end': 76}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99931943, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Tag', 'start': 77, 'end': 80}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9904579, 'index': 22, 'word': '##ore', 'start': 80, 'end': 83}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.45109466, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Fi', 'start': 8, 'end': 10}]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9815294, 'index': 10, 'word': 'India', 'start': 37, 'end': 42}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99948394, 'index': 30, 'word': 'Indians', 'start': 159, 'end': 166}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9980562, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 4, 'end': 12}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9994714, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 37, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.84789866, 'index': 8, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 39, 'end': 42}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9782329, 'index': 9, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 42, 'end': 44}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99895895, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 45, 'end': 51}]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9989336, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 4, 'end': 12}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99793947, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 19, 'end': 27}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.98593384, 'index': 1, 'word': 'Q', 'start': 0, 'end': 1}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.97843766, 'index': 2, 'word': '##uit', 'start': 1, 'end': 4}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9524904, 'index': 3, 'word': 'India', 'start': 5, 'end': 10}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.982846, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 11, 'end': 19}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.81826717, 'index': 9, 'word': 'C', 'start': 39, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.28173453, 'index': 10, 'word': '##rip', 'start': 40, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9257871, 'index': 11, 'word': '##ps', 'start': 43, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9840597, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Mission', 'start': 46, 'end': 53}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99701923, 'index': 17, 'word': 'World', 'start': 73, 'end': 78}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99834603, 'index': 18, 'word': 'War', 'start': 79, 'end': 82}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9983647, 'index': 19, 'word': 'II', 'start': 83, 'end': 85}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997902, 'index': 27, 'word': 'India', 'start': 123, 'end': 128}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9706252, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 9, 'end': 15}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99963224, 'index': 15, 'word': 'British', 'start': 78, 'end': 85}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99978024, 'index': 17, 'word': 'India', 'start': 91, 'end': 96}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9993381, 'index': 2, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 4, 'end': 12}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99945456, 'index': 3, 'word': 'Working', 'start': 13, 'end': 20}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9993965, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Committee', 'start': 21, 'end': 30}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9983947, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Ward', 'start': 50, 'end': 54}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.99776924, 'index': 11, 'word': '##ha', 'start': 54, 'end': 56}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.90019923, 'index': 20, 'word': '‘', 'start': 94, 'end': 95}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.63367796, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Q', 'start': 95, 'end': 96}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9613319, 'index': 22, 'word': '##uit', 'start': 96, 'end': 99}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9236661, 'index': 23, 'word': 'India', 'start': 100, 'end': 105}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.5729434, 'index': 24, 'word': '’', 'start': 105, 'end': 106}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9994878, 'index': 33, 'word': 'Indians', 'start': 163, 'end': 170}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99977624, 'index': 36, 'word': 'India', 'start': 180, 'end': 185}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9990649, 'index': 6, 'word': 'Bombay', 'start': 20, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9994809, 'index': 9, 'word': 'All', 'start': 32, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99927574, 'index': 10, 'word': 'India', 'start': 36, 'end': 41}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99943775, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 42, 'end': 50}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9993081, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Committee', 'start': 51, 'end': 60}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9792079, 'index': 7, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 29, 'end': 35}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.71340424, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Do', 'start': 60, 'end': 62}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.994837, 'index': 14, 'word': 'or', 'start': 63, 'end': 65}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99336576, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Die', 'start': 66, 'end': 69}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9706437, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Q', 'start': 14, 'end': 15}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9107369, 'index': 6, 'word': '##uit', 'start': 15, 'end': 18}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9890168, 'index': 7, 'word': 'India', 'start': 19, 'end': 24}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9995964, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Jay', 'start': 57, 'end': 60}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.98996407, 'index': 13, 'word': '##pra', 'start': 60, 'end': 63}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.96335256, 'index': 14, 'word': '##kas', 'start': 63, 'end': 66}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.72593695, 'index': 15, 'word': '##h', 'start': 66, 'end': 67}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9995881, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Narayan', 'start': 68, 'end': 75}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9996268, 'index': 18, 'word': 'A', 'start': 77, 'end': 78}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99904776, 'index': 19, 'word': '##run', 'start': 78, 'end': 81}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9552128, 'index': 20, 'word': '##a', 'start': 81, 'end': 82}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99953985, 'index': 21, 'word': 'As', 'start': 83, 'end': 85}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99900043, 'index': 22, 'word': '##af', 'start': 85, 'end': 87}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9996371, 'index': 23, 'word': 'Ali', 'start': 88, 'end': 91}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9996174, 'index': 25, 'word': 'Ram', 'start': 96, 'end': 99}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99884826, 'index': 26, 'word': 'Man', 'start': 100, 'end': 103}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9970943, 'index': 27, 'word': '##oh', 'start': 103, 'end': 105}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.95600706, 'index': 28, 'word': '##ar', 'start': 105, 'end': 107}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9993003, 'index': 29, 'word': 'Lo', 'start': 108, 'end': 110}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.994425, 'index': 30, 'word': '##hia', 'start': 110, 'end': 113}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.99930054, 'index': 36, 'word': 'Mata', 'start': 137, 'end': 141}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.98494333, 'index': 37, 'word': '##ng', 'start': 141, 'end': 143}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.8483863, 'index': 38, 'word': '##ini', 'start': 143, 'end': 146}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9996887, 'index': 39, 'word': 'Ha', 'start': 147, 'end': 149}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99405146, 'index': 40, 'word': '##z', 'start': 149, 'end': 150}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.86947805, 'index': 41, 'word': '##ra', 'start': 150, 'end': 152}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99963015, 'index': 43, 'word': 'Bengal', 'start': 156, 'end': 162}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.999169, 'index': 45, 'word': 'Ka', 'start': 164, 'end': 166}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.94265884, 'index': 46, 'word': '##na', 'start': 166, 'end': 168}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.62229085, 'index': 47, 'word': '##kla', 'start': 168, 'end': 171}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.79177326, 'index': 48, 'word': '##ta', 'start': 171, 'end': 173}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9993818, 'index': 49, 'word': 'Bar', 'start': 174, 'end': 177}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.9798693, 'index': 50, 'word': '##ua', 'start': 177, 'end': 179}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99974465, 'index': 52, 'word': 'Assam', 'start': 183, 'end': 188}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9994041, 'index': 54, 'word': 'Rama', 'start': 193, 'end': 197}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.99918634, 'index': 55, 'word': 'Devi', 'start': 198, 'end': 202}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9996006, 'index': 57, 'word': 'Odisha', 'start': 206, 'end': 212}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9996925, 'index': 2, 'word': 'British', 'start': 4, 'end': 11}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99940884, 'index': 8, 'word': 'Bombay', 'start': 26, 'end': 32}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9983877, 'index': 11, 'word': 'Q', 'start': 44, 'end': 45}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9957265, 'index': 12, 'word': '##uit', 'start': 45, 'end': 48}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9971953, 'index': 13, 'word': 'India', 'start': 49, 'end': 54}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9978389, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 55, 'end': 63}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9879464, 'index': 15, 'word': '2020', 'start': 64, 'end': 68}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.94118077, 'index': 18, 'word': 'India', 'start': 72, 'end': 77}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99516076, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Contemporary', 'start': 86, 'end': 98}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99804604, 'index': 22, 'word': 'World', 'start': 99, 'end': 104}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9983762, 'index': 23, 'word': '50', 'start': 105, 'end': 107}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99652416, 'index': 24, 'word': 'Disc', 'start': 108, 'end': 112}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9962404, 'index': 25, 'word': '##uss', 'start': 112, 'end': 115}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9971329, 'index': 26, 'word': 'Project', 'start': 116, 'end': 123}]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99826235, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 54, 'end': 57}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99759316, 'index': 11, 'word': '-', 'start': 57, 'end': 58}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9979757, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 58, 'end': 69}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99829996, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 70, 'end': 78}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9977932, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Salt', 'start': 12, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99508446, 'index': 5, 'word': 'March', 'start': 17, 'end': 22}]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.9942789, 'index': 9, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 45, 'end': 50}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9940764, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 51, 'end': 53}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.97639227, 'index': 11, 'word': '##so', 'start': 53, 'end': 55}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9940877, 'index': 12, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 55, 'end': 63}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9829121, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 64, 'end': 72}]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99030024, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Indo', 'start': 45, 'end': 49}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9464574, 'index': 11, 'word': '-', 'start': 49, 'end': 50}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9382353, 'index': 12, 'word': 'China', 'start': 50, 'end': 55}]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997693, 'index': 6, 'word': 'India', 'start': 21, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.89393574, 'index': 16, 'word': 'Indo', 'start': 70, 'end': 74}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.46710855, 'index': 17, 'word': '-', 'start': 74, 'end': 75}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.7818185, 'index': 18, 'word': 'China', 'start': 75, 'end': 80}]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9823102, 'index': 5, 'word': 'First', 'start': 11, 'end': 16}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99654734, 'index': 6, 'word': 'World', 'start': 17, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.997877, 'index': 7, 'word': 'War', 'start': 23, 'end': 26}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.999166, 'index': 14, 'word': 'National', 'start': 55, 'end': 63}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9987191, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 64, 'end': 72}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99646956, 'index': 17, 'word': 'India', 'start': 76, 'end': 81}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99802, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Indians', 'start': 7, 'end': 14}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9640115, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Row', 'start': 36, 'end': 39}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9587515, 'index': 11, 'word': '##latt', 'start': 39, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9957094, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Act', 'start': 44, 'end': 47}]
[{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.6304761, 'index': 4, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 7, 'end': 13}, {'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99904436, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 40, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.99840957, 'index': 11, 'word': '-', 'start': 43, 'end': 44}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9984073, 'index': 12, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 44, 'end': 55}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9987967, 'index': 13, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 56, 'end': 64}]
[]
[]
[]
[{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.88881576, 'index': 11, 'word': 'J', 'start': 36, 'end': 37}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.981033, 'index': 12, 'word': '##all', 'start': 37, 'end': 40}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.96555275, 'index': 13, 'word': '##ian', 'start': 40, 'end': 43}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.975837, 'index': 14, 'word': '##wala', 'start': 43, 'end': 47}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.9791728, 'index': 15, 'word': 'Ba', 'start': 48, 'end': 50}, {'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.94446045, 'index': 16, 'word': '##gh', 'start': 50, 'end': 52}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.971853, 'index': 21, 'word': 'Simon', 'start': 69, 'end': 74}, {'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9944824, 'index': 22, 'word': 'Commission', 'start': 75, 'end': 85}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.5833431, 'index': 7, 'word': 'B', 'start': 22, 'end': 23}, {'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.90595, 'index': 8, 'word': '##hara', 'start': 23, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.5235026, 'index': 9, 'word': '##t', 'start': 27, 'end': 28}, {'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.5450135, 'index': 10, 'word': 'Mata', 'start': 29, 'end': 33}, {'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.8870979, 'index': 18, 'word': 'German', 'start': 68, 'end': 74}]
[{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.99415725, 'index': 5, 'word': 'Project', 'start': 15, 'end': 22}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99811167, 'index': 6, 'word': '2020', 'start': 23, 'end': 27}, {'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.7177959, 'index': 8, 'word': '21', 'start': 28, 'end': 30}]
for i in result:
  print(i)
{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99931693, 'index': 5, 'word': 'India', 'start': 20, 'end': 25}
{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997613, 'index': 14, 'word': 'Europe', 'start': 66, 'end': 72}
{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997737, 'index': 94, 'word': 'India', 'start': 476, 'end': 481}
{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99977344, 'index': 97, 'word': 'India', 'start': 486, 'end': 491}
{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99834085, 'index': 186, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 973, 'end': 981}
{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.9962473, 'index': 188, 'word': 'Ma', 'start': 988, 'end': 990}
{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.5860444, 'index': 189, 'word': '##hat', 'start': 990, 'end': 993}
{'entity': 'B-PER', 'score': 0.5426429, 'index': 190, 'word': '##ma', 'start': 993, 'end': 995}
{'entity': 'I-PER', 'score': 0.91112596, 'index': 191, 'word': 'Gandhi', 'start': 996, 'end': 1002}
{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9997394, 'index': 224, 'word': 'India', 'start': 1180, 'end': 1185}
{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.8927317, 'index': 250, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 1306, 'end': 1309}
{'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.520106, 'index': 251, 'word': '-', 'start': 1309, 'end': 1310}
{'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.8413637, 'index': 252, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 1311, 'end': 1322}
{'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.9873811, 'index': 254, 'word': 'Civil', 'start': 1327, 'end': 1332}
{'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.985497, 'index': 255, 'word': 'Di', 'start': 1333, 'end': 1335}
{'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.993886, 'index': 257, 'word': '##bedience', 'start': 1337, 'end': 1345}
{'entity': 'I-ORG', 'score': 0.7867069, 'index': 258, 'word': 'Movement', 'start': 1346, 'end': 1354}
{'entity': 'B-ORG', 'score': 0.99787605, 'index': 266, 'word': 'Congress', 'start': 1381, 'end': 1389}
{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.99875164, 'index': 295, 'word': 'India', 'start': 1562, 'end': 1567}
{'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.6890268, 'index': 299, 'word': '##ism', 'start': 1587, 'end': 1590}
{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.94269603, 'index': 301, 'word': 'India', 'start': 1594, 'end': 1599}
{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9996833, 'index': 329, 'word': 'India', 'start': 1717, 'end': 1722}
{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.98587173, 'index': 332, 'word': 'Contemporary', 'start': 1731, 'end': 1743}
{'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99739414, 'index': 333, 'word': 'World', 'start': 1744, 'end': 1749}
{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.9935666, 'index': 337, 'word': 'First', 'start': 1760, 'end': 1765}
{'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9977816, 'index': 338, 'word': 'World', 'start': 1766, 'end': 1771}
{'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.99798775, 'index': 339, 'word': 'War', 'start': 1772, 'end': 1775}
{'entity': 'B-MISC', 'score': 0.8571265, 'index': 341, 'word': 'K', 'start': 1777, 'end': 1778}
{'entity': 'I-LOC', 'score': 0.46279716, 'index': 342, 'word': '##hil', 'start': 1778, 'end': 1781}
{'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.7327972, 'index': 343, 'word': '##af', 'start': 1781, 'end': 1783}
{'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.9512818, 'index': 346, 'word': 'Non', 'start': 1790, 'end': 1793}
{'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.60516286, 'index': 347, 'word': '-', 'start': 1793, 'end': 1794}
{'entity': 'I-MISC', 'score': 0.49440208, 'index': 348, 'word': 'Cooperation', 'start': 1794, 'end': 1805}
{'entity': 'B-LOC', 'score': 0.9993056, 'index': 491, 'word': 'India', 'start': 2554, 'end': 2559}
for i in list:
  ner_results = nlp(i)
  print(i,ner_results,'\n')
Spacy
!python -m spacy download en_core_web_sm
Collecting en_core_web_sm==2.1.0
  Downloading https://github.com/explosion/spacy-models/releases/download/en_core_web_sm-2.1.0/en_core_web_sm-2.1.0.tar.gz (11.1 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 11.1 MB 8.7 MB/s 
Building wheels for collected packages: en-core-web-sm
  Building wheel for en-core-web-sm (setup.py) ... done
  Created wheel for en-core-web-sm: filename=en_core_web_sm-2.1.0-py3-none-any.whl size=11074432 sha256=6a4620dd580e2611b15b11925e337be27018402f2dbea6b5236a5fa921ef385e
  Stored in directory: /tmp/pip-ephem-wheel-cache-9edhr4nk/wheels/59/4f/8c/0dbaab09a776d1fa3740e9465078bfd903cc22f3985382b496
Successfully built en-core-web-sm
Installing collected packages: en-core-web-sm
  Attempting uninstall: en-core-web-sm
    Found existing installation: en-core-web-sm 2.2.5
    Uninstalling en-core-web-sm-2.2.5:
      Successfully uninstalled en-core-web-sm-2.2.5
Successfully installed en-core-web-sm-2.1.0
✔ Download and installation successful
You can now load the model via spacy.load('en_core_web_sm')
#using spacy for named entity recognition
import spacy
from spacy import displacy
from collections import Counter
import en_core_web_sm 
nlp = en_core_web_sm.load()
doc = nlp('European authorities fined Google a record $5.1 billion on Wednesday for abusing its power in the mobile phone market and ordered the company to alter its practices')
print([(X.text, X.label_) for X in doc.ents])
[('European', 'NORP'), ('Google', 'ORG'), ('$5.1 billion', 'MONEY'), ('Wednesday', 'DATE')]
doc1=nlp(text)
i=0
print([(X.text, X.label_) for X in doc1.ents],"\n")
for X in doc1.ents:
  print((X.text, X.label_))
 
print(i)
[('29', 'CARDINAL'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Europe', 'LOC'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('one', 'CARDINAL'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('the first decade', 'DATE'), ('the twentieth century', 'DATE'), ('the 1920s', 'DATE'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('1', 'CARDINAL'), ('6 April 1919', 'DATE'), ('2020-21', 'CARDINAL'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('the Contemporary World', 'ORG'), ('30', 'DATE'), ('1', 'CARDINAL'), ('The First World War', 'EVENT'), ('Khilafat', 'PERSON'), ('the years after 1919', 'DATE'), ('First', 'ORDINAL'), ('between 1913 and 1918', 'DATE'), ('1918-19', 'DATE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('influenza', 'ORG'), ('1921', 'DATE'), ('12', 'CARDINAL'), ('13 million', 'CARDINAL'), ('1.1', 'CARDINAL'), ('The Idea of Satyagraha', 'WORK_OF_ART'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('January 1915', 'DATE'), ('South Africa', 'GPE'), ('2', 'CARDINAL'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('South\n', 'GPE'), ('Africa', 'LOC'), ('Volksrust', 'ORG'), ('6', 'CARDINAL'), ('November 1913', 'DATE'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Newcastle', 'GPE'), ('Transvaal', 'LOC'), ('Gandhiji', 'PERSON'), ('thousands', 'CARDINAL'), ('2020-21', 'DATE'), ('31', 'DATE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Indians', 'NORP'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('1917', 'DATE'), ('Champaran', 'NORP'), ('Bihar', 'GPE'), ('1917', 'DATE'), ('Kheda', 'ORG'), ('Gujarat', 'GPE'), ('Kheda', 'ORG'), ('1918', 'DATE'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Ahmedabad', 'PERSON'), ('1.2', 'CARDINAL'), ('The Rowlatt Act', 'LAW'), ('1919', 'DATE'), ('Rowlatt Act', 'PERSON'), ('1919', 'DATE'), ('Act', 'PERSON'), ('the Imperial Legislative\nCouncil', 'ORG'), ('the united opposition', 'ORG'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('two\nyears', 'DATE'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('6 April', 'DATE'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('Amritsar', 'ORG'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Delhi', 'GPE'), ('10 April', 'DATE'), ('Amritsar', 'ORG'), ('Dyer', 'PERSON'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Satyagraha', 'PERSON'), ('South Africa', 'GPE'), ('the supreme dharma …', 'ORG'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Britain', 'GPE'), ('Europe', 'LOC'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('hundreds of millions', 'MONEY'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Mahatma', 'PERSON'), ('Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('2020-21', 'CARDINAL'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('the Contemporary World', 'ORG'), ('32', 'DATE'), ('13 April', 'DATE'), ('Jallianwalla Bagh', 'PERSON'), ('that day', 'DATE'), ('Jallianwalla', 'GPE'), ('annual', 'DATE'), ('Baisakhi', 'GPE'), ('hundreds', 'CARDINAL'), ('Jallianwalla Bagh', 'PERSON'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('Gujranwala', 'GPE'), ('Punjab', 'PERSON'), ('Pakistan', 'GPE'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Rowlatt', 'PERSON'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Hindus', 'NORP'), ('Muslims', 'NORP'), ('One', 'CARDINAL'), ('Khilafat', 'ORG'), ('The First World War', 'EVENT'), ('Ottoman', 'GPE'), ('Turkey', 'GPE'), ('Ottoman', 'NORP'), ('Islamic', 'NORP'), ('Khalifa', 'PERSON'), ('Khalifa', 'PERSON'), ('Khilafat Committee', 'ORG'), ('Bombay', 'GPE'), ('March 1919', 'DATE'), ('Muslim', 'NORP'), ('Muhammad Ali', 'PERSON'), ('Shaukat Ali', 'PERSON'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Muslims', 'NORP'), ('Calcutta', 'PERSON'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('September 1920', 'DATE'), ('Khilafat', 'ORG'), ('1.3', 'CARDINAL'), ('Hind Swaraj', 'PERSON'), ('1909', 'DATE'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('3', 'CARDINAL'), ('Dyer', 'PERSON'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('Amritsar', 'ORG'), ('Punjab', 'PERSON'), ('2020-21', 'DATE'), ('33', 'CARDINAL'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Boycott', 'GPE'), ('Indians', 'NORP'), ('Indians', 'NORP'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('a\nyear', 'DATE'), ('army', 'ORG'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Shaukat Ali', 'PERSON'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('November 1920', 'DATE'), ('the months between September', 'DATE'), ('December', 'DATE'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Nagpur', 'GPE'), ('December 1920', 'DATE'), ('Non-Cooperation', 'ORG'), ('July 1922', 'DATE'), ('2020-21', 'CARDINAL'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('the Contemporary World', 'ORG'), ('34', 'DATE'), ('2', 'CARDINAL'), ('Movement', 'ORG'), ('January 1921', 'DATE'), ('Swaraj', 'NORP'), ('2.1', 'CARDINAL'), ('The Movement', 'ORG'), ('Thousands', 'CARDINAL'), ('Madras', 'PERSON'), ('the Justice Party', 'ORG'), ('non-Brahmans', 'NORP'), ('Brahmans', 'NORP'), ('between 1921 and 1922', 'DATE'), ('102', 'CARDINAL'), ('57', 'CARDINAL'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('Khadi', 'PERSON'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('2.2', 'CARDINAL'), ('the Non-Cooperation Movement', 'ORG'), ('Picket', 'PERSON'), ('The year is 1921', 'DATE'), ('the Non-Cooperation\nMovement', 'ORG'), ('2020-21', 'DATE'), ('35', 'DATE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('the years', 'DATE'), ('Awadh', 'PERSON'), ('Baba Ramchandra', 'PERSON'), ('Fiji', 'GPE'), ('June 1920', 'DATE'), ('Awadh', 'GPE'), ('October', 'DATE'), ('Oudh Kisan Sabha', 'PERSON'), ('Jawaharlal Nehru', 'PERSON'), ('Baba', 'GPE'), ('a month', 'DATE'), ('over 300', 'CARDINAL'), ('Cooperation Movement', 'ORG'), ('the following year', 'DATE'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Awadh', 'PERSON'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('1921', 'DATE'), ('Gandhiji', 'PERSON'), ('Mahatma', 'PERSON'), ('Begar', 'PERSON'), ('Uttar', 'GPE'), ('1920', 'DATE'), ('Swaraj', 'NORP'), ('6 January 1921', 'DATE'), ('United Provinces', 'ORG'), ('Rae Bareli', 'GPE'), ('Jawaharlal Nehru', 'PERSON'), ('Sarvapalli Gopal', 'PERSON'), ('Vol', 'PERSON'), ('1928', 'DATE'), ('Vallabhbhai Patel', 'PERSON'), ('Bardoli', 'GPE'), ('Gujarat', 'GPE'), ('Bardoli Satyagraha', 'PERSON'), ('Vallabhbhai Patel', 'PERSON'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('2020-21', 'CARDINAL'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('the Contemporary World', 'ORG'), ('36', 'CARDINAL'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('the Gudem Hills', 'FAC'), ('Andhra', 'GPE'), ('the early 1920s', 'DATE'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Alluri Sitaram Raju', 'ORG'), ('Raju', 'PERSON'), ('Raju', 'PERSON'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('the Non-Cooperation\nMovement', 'ORG'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Gudem', 'ORG'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('Raju', 'PERSON'), ('1924', 'DATE'), ('2.3', 'CARDINAL'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Assam', 'GPE'), ('1859', 'DATE'), ('thousands', 'CARDINAL'), ('Gandhi Raj', 'PERSON'), ('National Movement', 'ORG'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('Indo', 'GPE'), ('Chapter 2', 'LAW'), ('2020-21', 'DATE'), ('37', 'DATE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Chauri Chaura', 'ORG'), ('1922', 'DATE'), ('Chauri Chaura', 'ORG'), ('Gorakhpur', 'GPE'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('the Non-Cooperation Movement', 'ORG'), ('2020-21', 'CARDINAL'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('the Contemporary World', 'ORG'), ('38', 'DATE'), ('3', 'CARDINAL'), ('February 1922', 'DATE'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Non-Cooperation Movement', 'ORG'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('the Government of India Act', 'ORG'), ('1919', 'DATE'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('democratic', 'NORP'), ('C. R. Das', 'PERSON'), ('Motilal Nehru', 'ORG'), ('the Swaraj Party', 'ORG'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Subhas Chandra Bose', 'PERSON'), ('two', 'CARDINAL'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('the late 1920s', 'DATE'), ('first', 'ORDINAL'), ('1926', 'DATE'), ('1930', 'DATE'), ('1930', 'DATE'), ('Tory', 'NORP'), ('Britain', 'GPE'), ('a Statutory Commission', 'ORG'), ('John Simon', 'PERSON'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('the Simon Commission', 'ORG'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('1928', 'DATE'), ('Simon', 'PERSON'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('the\nMuslim League', 'ORG'), ('October 1929', 'DATE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('6', 'CARDINAL'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Allahabad, 1931', 'DATE'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Sardar Vallabhbhai', 'LOC'), ('Jawaharlal Nehru', 'ORG'), ('Chandra Bose', 'PERSON'), ('fifth', 'ORDINAL'), ('Lala Lajpat Rai', 'PERSON'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('the\nSimon Commission', 'ORG'), ('2020-21', 'DATE'), ('39', 'DATE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Subhas Chandra Bose', 'PERSON'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('December 1929', 'DATE'), ('the Lahore Congress', 'ORG'), ('Purna\nSwaraj', 'WORK_OF_ART'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('26 January\n1930', 'DATE'), ('the Independence Day', 'DATE'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('3.1', 'CARDINAL'), ('The Salt March', 'GPE'), ('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('31 January 1930', 'DATE'), ('Viceroy Irwin', 'ORG'), ('eleven', 'CARDINAL'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('11 March', 'DATE'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('78', 'CARDINAL'), ('over 240 miles', 'QUANTITY'), ('Gandhiji', 'GPE'), ('Sabarmati', 'GPE'), ('Gujarati', 'GPE'), ('Dandi', 'GPE'), ('24 days', 'DATE'), ('about 10 miles', 'QUANTITY'), ('Thousands', 'CARDINAL'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('6 April', 'DATE'), ('Dandi', 'GPE'), ('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG'), ('the Non-Cooperation\nMovement', 'ORG'), ('The Independence Day Pledge', 'EVENT'), ('26 January\n1930', 'DATE'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('The British Government', 'ORG'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('Purna Swaraj', 'PERSON'), ('Complete Independence', 'ORG'), ('2020-21', 'CARDINAL'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('the Contemporary World', 'ORG'), ('40', 'CARDINAL'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('1921-22', 'DATE'), ('Thousands', 'CARDINAL'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('one', 'CARDINAL'), ('one', 'CARDINAL'), ('Abdul Ghaffar Khan', 'PERSON'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('April 1930', 'DATE'), ('Peshawar', 'GPE'), ('A month later', 'DATE'), ('Mahatma', 'PERSON'), ('Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Sholapur', 'ORG'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('about 100,000', 'CARDINAL'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Irwin', 'PERSON'), ('5 March 1931', 'DATE'), ('this Gandhi-Irwin Pact', 'ORG'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('first', 'ORDINAL'), ('Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('78', 'CARDINAL'), ('thousands', 'CARDINAL'), ('1930', 'DATE'), ('2020-21', 'DATE'), ('41', 'CARDINAL'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('London', 'GPE'), ('December 1931', 'DATE'), ('London', 'GPE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Ghaffar Khan', 'PERSON'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('boycotts', 'GPE'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG'), ('over a year', 'DATE'), ('1934', 'DATE'), ('3.2', 'CARDINAL'), ('Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG'), ('Gujarat', 'GPE'), ('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG'), ('1931', 'DATE'), ('1932', 'DATE'), ('Depression', 'LAW'), ('Socialists', 'NORP'), ('Communists', 'NORP'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('1928', 'DATE'), ('Republican Army', 'ORG'), ('Ferozeshah Kotla', 'LOC'), ('Delhi', 'GPE'), ('Amongst', 'LOC'), ('Bhagat Singh', 'PERSON'), ('Jatin', 'GPE'), ('Das', 'PERSON'), ('Ajoy Ghosh', 'PERSON'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('April 1929', 'DATE'), ('Bhagat Singh', 'PERSON'), ('Batukeswar', 'ORG'), ('Dutta', 'ORG'), ('the Legislative Assembly', 'ORG'), ('the same year', 'DATE'), ('Bhagat Singh', 'PERSON'), ('23', 'CARDINAL'), ('Bhagat Singh', 'PERSON'), ('Zindabad', 'PERSON'), ('Box', 'PERSON'), ('1', 'CARDINAL'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('the Contemporary World', 'ORG'), ('42', 'CARDINAL'), ('the Civil\nDisobedience Movement', 'ORG'), ('the First World War', 'EVENT'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('Chapter 5', 'LAW'), ('Commercial Congress', 'ORG'), ('1920', 'DATE'), ('the Federation of the Indian', 'ORG'), ('Chamber of Commerce and Industries', 'ORG'), ('1927', 'DATE'), ('Purshottamdas Thakurdas', 'PRODUCT'), ('G. D. Birla', 'PERSON'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG'), ('the Round Table Conference', 'EVENT'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Nagpur', 'GPE'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG'), ('Gandhian', 'NORP'), ('1930', 'DATE'), ('1932', 'DATE'), ('1930', 'DATE'), ('thousands', 'CARDINAL'), ('Chotanagpur', 'GPE'), ('Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG'), ('Gandhiji', 'PERSON'), ('march', 'DATE'), ('thousands', 'CARDINAL'), ('1918-19', 'DATE'), ('Baba', 'GPE'), ('April 1919', 'DATE'), ('Gandhian', 'NORP'), ('Rowlatt Act', 'PERSON'), ('Jallianwala', 'GPE'), ('January 1921', 'DATE'), ('Khilafat', 'ORG'), ('February 1922', 'DATE'), ('Chauri Chaura', 'ORG'), ('May 1924', 'DATE'), ('Sitarama Raju', 'PERSON'), ('two-year', 'DATE'), ('December 1929', 'DATE'), ('Lahore Congress', 'ORG'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('‘Purna Swaraj’', 'ORG'), ('1930', 'DATE'), ('Ambedkar', 'PERSON'), ('Depressed Classes\nAssociation', 'ORG'), ('March 1930', 'DATE'), ('Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG'), ('Dandi', 'GPE'), ('March 1931', 'DATE'), ('Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG'), ('December 1931', 'DATE'), ('Second', 'ORDINAL'), ('1932', 'DATE'), ('2020-21', 'DATE'), ('43', 'CARDINAL'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('3.3', 'CARDINAL'), ('The Limits of Civil Disobedience', 'WORK_OF_ART'), ('One', 'CARDINAL'), ('the 1930s', 'DATE'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Hindus', 'NORP'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('a hundred years', 'DATE'), ('Indians', 'NORP'), ('the Civil Disobedience\nMovement', 'ORG'), ('first', 'ORDINAL'), ('2020-21', 'DATE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('the Contemporary World', 'ORG'), ('44', 'DATE'), ('Dalit', 'PERSON'), ('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG'), ('Maharashtra', 'ORG'), ('Nagpur', 'GPE'), ('B.R. Ambedkar', 'PERSON'), ('the Depressed\nClasses Association', 'ORG'), ('1930', 'DATE'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('second', 'ORDINAL'), ('Round Table Conference', 'EVENT'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('Ambedkar', 'PERSON'), ('Gandhiji', 'PERSON'), ('Ambedkar', 'PERSON'), ('Gandhiji', 'PERSON'), ('the Poona Pact', 'LAW'), ('September 1932', 'DATE'), ('the Depressed Classes', 'ORG'), ('Muslim', 'NORP'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG'), ('the Non-Cooperation-Khilafat', 'LAW'), ('Muslims', 'NORP'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Hindu', 'NORP'), ('the Hindu Mahasabha', 'PERSON'), ('Hindus', 'NORP'), ('Muslims', 'NORP'), ('Hindu', 'NORP'), ('two', 'CARDINAL'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Muslim League', 'ORG'), ('1927', 'DATE'), ('Muhammad Ali', 'PERSON'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Maulana Azad', 'PERSON'), ('Sevagram Ashram', 'ORG'), ('Wardha', 'GPE'), ('1935', 'DATE'), ('2020-21', 'DATE'), ('45', 'CARDINAL'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Jinnah', 'GPE'), ('one', 'CARDINAL'), ('the Muslim League', 'ORG'), ('Muslims', 'NORP'), ('the Central Assembly', 'ORG'), ('Muslim', 'NORP'), ('Bengal', 'PERSON'), ('Punjab', 'PERSON'), ('1928', 'DATE'), ('M.R. Jayakar', 'PERSON'), ('Hindu', 'NORP'), ('Mahasabha', 'PERSON'), ('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Muslims', 'NORP'), ('Muslim', 'NORP'), ('Muslims', 'NORP'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Hindu', 'NORP'), ('1930', 'DATE'), ('Muhammad Iqbal', 'PERSON'), ('the Muslim League', 'ORG'), ('Muslims', 'NORP'), ('Pakistan', 'GPE'), ('subsequent years', 'DATE'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Quran', 'GPE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('European', 'NORP'), ('European', 'NORP'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Muslim', 'NORP'), ('Muslim', 'NORP'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Hindu', 'NORP'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Muslims', 'NORP'), ('Punjab', 'PERSON'), ('Iqbal', 'ORG'), ('2020-21', 'CARDINAL'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('the Contemporary World', 'ORG'), ('46', 'DATE'), ('4', 'CARDINAL'), ('The Sense of Collective Belonging\n', 'WORK_OF_ART'), ('Bal Gangadhar Tilak', 'PERSON'), ('Tilak', 'ORG'), ('2020-21', 'DATE'), ('47', 'DATE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Chapter 1', 'LAW'), ('twentieth', 'ORDINAL'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Bharat Mata', 'GPE'), ('first', 'ORDINAL'), ('Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay', 'ORG'), ('the\n1870s', 'DATE'), ('Vande Mataram', 'WORK_OF_ART'), ('Anandamath', 'WORK_OF_ART'), ('Swadeshi', 'ORG'), ('Bengal', 'GPE'), ('Swadeshi', 'ORG'), ('Abanindranath Tagore', 'ORG'), ('12', 'CARDINAL'), ('Bharat Mata', 'PERSON'), ('subsequent years', 'DATE'), ('Bharat Mata', 'PERSON'), ('14', 'CARDINAL'), ('one', 'CARDINAL'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('late-nineteenth-century', 'DATE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('one', 'CARDINAL'), ('Bengal', 'GPE'), ('12', 'CARDINAL'), ('Bharat Mata', 'WORK_OF_ART'), ('Abanindranath Tagore', 'PERSON'), ('1905', 'DATE'), ('Abanindranath Tagore', 'PERSON'), ('Ravi Varma', 'PERSON'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('Bharat Mata', 'PERSON'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Bharat Mata', 'PERSON'), ('2020-21', 'CARDINAL'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('the Contemporary World', 'ORG'), ('48', 'DATE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Arya', 'PERSON'), ('days', 'DATE'), ('Hindus', 'NORP'), ('Tartar', 'GPE'), ('China', 'GPE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Tarinicharan', 'GPE'), ('The History of Bharatbarsh', 'WORK_OF_ART'), ('1, 1858', 'DATE'), ('Madras', 'GPE'), ('Natesa Sastri', 'ORG'), ('four', 'CARDINAL'), ('Tamil', 'PERSON'), ('The Folklore of  Southern India', 'WORK_OF_ART'), ('Swadeshi', 'ORG'), ('Bengal', 'GPE'), ('eight', 'CARDINAL'), ('eight', 'CARDINAL'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('a crescent moon', 'QUANTITY'), ('Hindus', 'NORP'), ('Muslims', 'NORP'), ('1921', 'DATE'), ('Swaraj', 'NORP'), ('Gandhian', 'NORP'), ('the end of the nineteenth century', 'DATE'), ('Indians', 'NORP'), ('Indian', 'NORP'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('Indians', 'NORP'), ('Indians', 'NORP'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('Hindu', 'NORP'), ('Hindu', 'NORP'), ('14a', 'DATE'), ('Bharat Mata', 'PERSON'), ('Bharat Mata', 'PERSON'), ('Abanindranath Tagore', 'PERSON'), ('Figs', 'ORG'), ('14', 'DATE'), ('2020-21', 'DATE'), ('49', 'DATE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Indians', 'NORP'), ('the first half', 'DATE'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('one', 'CARDINAL'), ('Congress', 'ORG'), ('Quit India Movement', 'ORG'), ('the Cripps Mission', 'ORG'), ('World War II', 'EVENT'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('The Congress Working\nCommittee', 'ORG'), ('Wardha', 'GPE'), ('14 July 1942', 'DATE'), ('Quit India', 'WORK_OF_ART'), ('Indians', 'NORP'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('8 August 1942', 'DATE'), ('Bombay', 'GPE'), ('the All India Congress Committee', 'ORG'), ('Gandhiji', 'PERSON'), ('Die', 'PERSON'), ('Quit India', 'WORK_OF_ART'), ('thousands', 'CARDINAL'), ('Jayprakash Narayan', 'PERSON'), ('Asaf Ali', 'PERSON'), ('Ram Manohar Lohia', 'PERSON'), ('Matangini Hazra', 'PERSON'), ('Bengal', 'GPE'), ('Kanaklata Barua', 'PERSON'), ('Assam', 'GPE'), ('Rama Devi', 'PERSON'), ('Odisha', 'GPE'), ('British', 'NORP'), ('14b', 'DATE'), ('Bombay', 'GPE'), ('the Quit\n', 'ORG'), ('2020-21', 'DATE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('the Contemporary World', 'ORG'), ('50', 'CARDINAL'), ('1', 'CARDINAL'), ('the Non-Cooperation Movement', 'ORG'), ('1921', 'DATE'), ('three', 'CARDINAL'), ('2', 'CARDINAL'), ('the Salt March', 'GPE'), ('3', 'CARDINAL'), ('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG'), ('4', 'CARDINAL'), ('Indo', 'GPE'), ('China', 'GPE'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Indo', 'GPE'), ('China', 'GPE'), ('1', 'CARDINAL'), ('the First World War', 'EVENT'), ('the National Movement', 'ORG'), ('India', 'GPE'), ('Indians', 'NORP'), ('the Rowlatt Act', 'LAW'), ('the Non-Cooperation Movement', 'ORG'), ('2', 'CARDINAL'), ('3', 'CARDINAL'), ('The Jallianwala Bagh', 'EVENT'), ('The Simon Commission', 'ORG'), ('4', 'DATE'), ('Bharat Mata', 'PERSON'), ('Germania', 'GPE'), ('Chapter 1', 'LAW'), ('2020-21', 'CARDINAL')] 

('29', 'CARDINAL')
('India', 'GPE')
('Europe', 'LOC')
('India', 'GPE')
('India', 'GPE')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('one', 'CARDINAL')
('India', 'GPE')
('the first decade', 'DATE')
('the twentieth century', 'DATE')
('the 1920s', 'DATE')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('India', 'GPE')
('India', 'GPE')
('1', 'CARDINAL')
('6 April 1919', 'DATE')
('2020-21', 'CARDINAL')
('India', 'GPE')
('the Contemporary World', 'ORG')
('30', 'DATE')
('1', 'CARDINAL')
('The First World War', 'EVENT')
('Khilafat', 'PERSON')
('the years after 1919', 'DATE')
('First', 'ORDINAL')
('between 1913 and 1918', 'DATE')
('1918-19', 'DATE')
('India', 'GPE')
('influenza', 'ORG')
('1921', 'DATE')
('12', 'CARDINAL')
('13 million', 'CARDINAL')
('1.1', 'CARDINAL')
('The Idea of Satyagraha', 'WORK_OF_ART')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('India', 'GPE')
('January 1915', 'DATE')
('South Africa', 'GPE')
('2', 'CARDINAL')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('South\n', 'GPE')
('Africa', 'LOC')
('Volksrust', 'ORG')
('6', 'CARDINAL')
('November 1913', 'DATE')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Newcastle', 'GPE')
('Transvaal', 'LOC')
('Gandhiji', 'PERSON')
('thousands', 'CARDINAL')
('2020-21', 'DATE')
('31', 'DATE')
('India', 'GPE')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Indians', 'NORP')
('India', 'GPE')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('1917', 'DATE')
('Champaran', 'NORP')
('Bihar', 'GPE')
('1917', 'DATE')
('Kheda', 'ORG')
('Gujarat', 'GPE')
('Kheda', 'ORG')
('1918', 'DATE')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Ahmedabad', 'PERSON')
('1.2', 'CARDINAL')
('The Rowlatt Act', 'LAW')
('1919', 'DATE')
('Rowlatt Act', 'PERSON')
('1919', 'DATE')
('Act', 'PERSON')
('the Imperial Legislative\nCouncil', 'ORG')
('the united opposition', 'ORG')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('two\nyears', 'DATE')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('6 April', 'DATE')
('British', 'NORP')
('Amritsar', 'ORG')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Delhi', 'GPE')
('10 April', 'DATE')
('Amritsar', 'ORG')
('Dyer', 'PERSON')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Satyagraha', 'PERSON')
('South Africa', 'GPE')
('the supreme dharma …', 'ORG')
('India', 'GPE')
('Britain', 'GPE')
('Europe', 'LOC')
('British', 'NORP')
('hundreds of millions', 'MONEY')
('India', 'GPE')
('Mahatma', 'PERSON')
('Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('2020-21', 'CARDINAL')
('India', 'GPE')
('the Contemporary World', 'ORG')
('32', 'DATE')
('13 April', 'DATE')
('Jallianwalla Bagh', 'PERSON')
('that day', 'DATE')
('Jallianwalla', 'GPE')
('annual', 'DATE')
('Baisakhi', 'GPE')
('hundreds', 'CARDINAL')
('Jallianwalla Bagh', 'PERSON')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('Gujranwala', 'GPE')
('Punjab', 'PERSON')
('Pakistan', 'GPE')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Rowlatt', 'PERSON')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('India', 'GPE')
('Hindus', 'NORP')
('Muslims', 'NORP')
('One', 'CARDINAL')
('Khilafat', 'ORG')
('The First World War', 'EVENT')
('Ottoman', 'GPE')
('Turkey', 'GPE')
('Ottoman', 'NORP')
('Islamic', 'NORP')
('Khalifa', 'PERSON')
('Khalifa', 'PERSON')
('Khilafat Committee', 'ORG')
('Bombay', 'GPE')
('March 1919', 'DATE')
('Muslim', 'NORP')
('Muhammad Ali', 'PERSON')
('Shaukat Ali', 'PERSON')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Muslims', 'NORP')
('Calcutta', 'PERSON')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('September 1920', 'DATE')
('Khilafat', 'ORG')
('1.3', 'CARDINAL')
('Hind Swaraj', 'PERSON')
('1909', 'DATE')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('British', 'NORP')
('India', 'GPE')
('3', 'CARDINAL')
('Dyer', 'PERSON')
('British', 'NORP')
('Amritsar', 'ORG')
('Punjab', 'PERSON')
('2020-21', 'DATE')
('33', 'CARDINAL')
('India', 'GPE')
('Boycott', 'GPE')
('Indians', 'NORP')
('Indians', 'NORP')
('British', 'NORP')
('India', 'GPE')
('a\nyear', 'DATE')
('army', 'ORG')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Shaukat Ali', 'PERSON')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('November 1920', 'DATE')
('the months between September', 'DATE')
('December', 'DATE')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Nagpur', 'GPE')
('December 1920', 'DATE')
('Non-Cooperation', 'ORG')
('July 1922', 'DATE')
('2020-21', 'CARDINAL')
('India', 'GPE')
('the Contemporary World', 'ORG')
('34', 'DATE')
('2', 'CARDINAL')
('Movement', 'ORG')
('January 1921', 'DATE')
('Swaraj', 'NORP')
('2.1', 'CARDINAL')
('The Movement', 'ORG')
('Thousands', 'CARDINAL')
('Madras', 'PERSON')
('the Justice Party', 'ORG')
('non-Brahmans', 'NORP')
('Brahmans', 'NORP')
('between 1921 and 1922', 'DATE')
('102', 'CARDINAL')
('57', 'CARDINAL')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('Khadi', 'PERSON')
('British', 'NORP')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('British', 'NORP')
('2.2', 'CARDINAL')
('the Non-Cooperation Movement', 'ORG')
('Picket', 'PERSON')
('The year is 1921', 'DATE')
('the Non-Cooperation\nMovement', 'ORG')
('2020-21', 'DATE')
('35', 'DATE')
('India', 'GPE')
('India', 'GPE')
('the years', 'DATE')
('Awadh', 'PERSON')
('Baba Ramchandra', 'PERSON')
('Fiji', 'GPE')
('June 1920', 'DATE')
('Awadh', 'GPE')
('October', 'DATE')
('Oudh Kisan Sabha', 'PERSON')
('Jawaharlal Nehru', 'PERSON')
('Baba', 'GPE')
('a month', 'DATE')
('over 300', 'CARDINAL')
('Cooperation Movement', 'ORG')
('the following year', 'DATE')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Awadh', 'PERSON')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('1921', 'DATE')
('Gandhiji', 'PERSON')
('Mahatma', 'PERSON')
('Begar', 'PERSON')
('Uttar', 'GPE')
('1920', 'DATE')
('Swaraj', 'NORP')
('6 January 1921', 'DATE')
('United Provinces', 'ORG')
('Rae Bareli', 'GPE')
('Jawaharlal Nehru', 'PERSON')
('Sarvapalli Gopal', 'PERSON')
('Vol', 'PERSON')
('1928', 'DATE')
('Vallabhbhai Patel', 'PERSON')
('Bardoli', 'GPE')
('Gujarat', 'GPE')
('Bardoli Satyagraha', 'PERSON')
('Vallabhbhai Patel', 'PERSON')
('India', 'GPE')
('2020-21', 'CARDINAL')
('India', 'GPE')
('the Contemporary World', 'ORG')
('36', 'CARDINAL')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('the Gudem Hills', 'FAC')
('Andhra', 'GPE')
('the early 1920s', 'DATE')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Alluri Sitaram Raju', 'ORG')
('Raju', 'PERSON')
('Raju', 'PERSON')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('the Non-Cooperation\nMovement', 'ORG')
('India', 'GPE')
('Gudem', 'ORG')
('British', 'NORP')
('Raju', 'PERSON')
('1924', 'DATE')
('2.3', 'CARDINAL')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Assam', 'GPE')
('1859', 'DATE')
('thousands', 'CARDINAL')
('Gandhi Raj', 'PERSON')
('National Movement', 'ORG')
('British', 'NORP')
('Indo', 'GPE')
('Chapter 2', 'LAW')
('2020-21', 'DATE')
('37', 'DATE')
('India', 'GPE')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('India', 'GPE')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Chauri Chaura', 'ORG')
('1922', 'DATE')
('Chauri Chaura', 'ORG')
('Gorakhpur', 'GPE')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('the Non-Cooperation Movement', 'ORG')
('2020-21', 'CARDINAL')
('India', 'GPE')
('the Contemporary World', 'ORG')
('38', 'DATE')
('3', 'CARDINAL')
('February 1922', 'DATE')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Non-Cooperation Movement', 'ORG')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('the Government of India Act', 'ORG')
('1919', 'DATE')
('British', 'NORP')
('democratic', 'NORP')
('C. R. Das', 'PERSON')
('Motilal Nehru', 'ORG')
('the Swaraj Party', 'ORG')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Subhas Chandra Bose', 'PERSON')
('two', 'CARDINAL')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('the late 1920s', 'DATE')
('first', 'ORDINAL')
('1926', 'DATE')
('1930', 'DATE')
('1930', 'DATE')
('Tory', 'NORP')
('Britain', 'GPE')
('a Statutory Commission', 'ORG')
('John Simon', 'PERSON')
('India', 'GPE')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('British', 'NORP')
('the Simon Commission', 'ORG')
('India', 'GPE')
('1928', 'DATE')
('Simon', 'PERSON')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('the\nMuslim League', 'ORG')
('October 1929', 'DATE')
('India', 'GPE')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('6', 'CARDINAL')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Allahabad, 1931', 'DATE')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Sardar Vallabhbhai', 'LOC')
('Jawaharlal Nehru', 'ORG')
('Chandra Bose', 'PERSON')
('fifth', 'ORDINAL')
('Lala Lajpat Rai', 'PERSON')
('British', 'NORP')
('the\nSimon Commission', 'ORG')
('2020-21', 'DATE')
('39', 'DATE')
('India', 'GPE')
('Subhas Chandra Bose', 'PERSON')
('British', 'NORP')
('December 1929', 'DATE')
('the Lahore Congress', 'ORG')
('Purna\nSwaraj', 'WORK_OF_ART')
('India', 'GPE')
('26 January\n1930', 'DATE')
('the Independence Day', 'DATE')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('3.1', 'CARDINAL')
('The Salt March', 'GPE')
('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('31 January 1930', 'DATE')
('Viceroy Irwin', 'ORG')
('eleven', 'CARDINAL')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('British', 'NORP')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('11 March', 'DATE')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('78', 'CARDINAL')
('over 240 miles', 'QUANTITY')
('Gandhiji', 'GPE')
('Sabarmati', 'GPE')
('Gujarati', 'GPE')
('Dandi', 'GPE')
('24 days', 'DATE')
('about 10 miles', 'QUANTITY')
('Thousands', 'CARDINAL')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('British', 'NORP')
('6 April', 'DATE')
('Dandi', 'GPE')
('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG')
('the Non-Cooperation\nMovement', 'ORG')
('The Independence Day Pledge', 'EVENT')
('26 January\n1930', 'DATE')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('The British Government', 'ORG')
('India', 'GPE')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('India', 'GPE')
('India', 'GPE')
('British', 'NORP')
('Purna Swaraj', 'PERSON')
('Complete Independence', 'ORG')
('2020-21', 'CARDINAL')
('India', 'GPE')
('the Contemporary World', 'ORG')
('40', 'CARDINAL')
('British', 'NORP')
('1921-22', 'DATE')
('Thousands', 'CARDINAL')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('one', 'CARDINAL')
('one', 'CARDINAL')
('Abdul Ghaffar Khan', 'PERSON')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('April 1930', 'DATE')
('Peshawar', 'GPE')
('A month later', 'DATE')
('Mahatma', 'PERSON')
('Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Sholapur', 'ORG')
('British', 'NORP')
('about 100,000', 'CARDINAL')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Irwin', 'PERSON')
('5 March 1931', 'DATE')
('this Gandhi-Irwin Pact', 'ORG')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('first', 'ORDINAL')
('Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('78', 'CARDINAL')
('thousands', 'CARDINAL')
('1930', 'DATE')
('2020-21', 'DATE')
('41', 'CARDINAL')
('India', 'GPE')
('London', 'GPE')
('December 1931', 'DATE')
('London', 'GPE')
('India', 'GPE')
('Ghaffar Khan', 'PERSON')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('boycotts', 'GPE')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG')
('over a year', 'DATE')
('1934', 'DATE')
('3.2', 'CARDINAL')
('Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG')
('Gujarat', 'GPE')
('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG')
('1931', 'DATE')
('1932', 'DATE')
('Depression', 'LAW')
('Socialists', 'NORP')
('Communists', 'NORP')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('British', 'NORP')
('1928', 'DATE')
('Republican Army', 'ORG')
('Ferozeshah Kotla', 'LOC')
('Delhi', 'GPE')
('Amongst', 'LOC')
('Bhagat Singh', 'PERSON')
('Jatin', 'GPE')
('Das', 'PERSON')
('Ajoy Ghosh', 'PERSON')
('India', 'GPE')
('British', 'NORP')
('April 1929', 'DATE')
('Bhagat Singh', 'PERSON')
('Batukeswar', 'ORG')
('Dutta', 'ORG')
('the Legislative Assembly', 'ORG')
('the same year', 'DATE')
('Bhagat Singh', 'PERSON')
('23', 'CARDINAL')
('Bhagat Singh', 'PERSON')
('Zindabad', 'PERSON')
('Box', 'PERSON')
('1', 'CARDINAL')
('India', 'GPE')
('the Contemporary World', 'ORG')
('42', 'CARDINAL')
('the Civil\nDisobedience Movement', 'ORG')
('the First World War', 'EVENT')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('Chapter 5', 'LAW')
('Commercial Congress', 'ORG')
('1920', 'DATE')
('the Federation of the Indian', 'ORG')
('Chamber of Commerce and Industries', 'ORG')
('1927', 'DATE')
('Purshottamdas Thakurdas', 'PRODUCT')
('G. D. Birla', 'PERSON')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG')
('the Round Table Conference', 'EVENT')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Nagpur', 'GPE')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG')
('Gandhian', 'NORP')
('1930', 'DATE')
('1932', 'DATE')
('1930', 'DATE')
('thousands', 'CARDINAL')
('Chotanagpur', 'GPE')
('Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG')
('Gandhiji', 'PERSON')
('march', 'DATE')
('thousands', 'CARDINAL')
('1918-19', 'DATE')
('Baba', 'GPE')
('April 1919', 'DATE')
('Gandhian', 'NORP')
('Rowlatt Act', 'PERSON')
('Jallianwala', 'GPE')
('January 1921', 'DATE')
('Khilafat', 'ORG')
('February 1922', 'DATE')
('Chauri Chaura', 'ORG')
('May 1924', 'DATE')
('Sitarama Raju', 'PERSON')
('two-year', 'DATE')
('December 1929', 'DATE')
('Lahore Congress', 'ORG')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('‘Purna Swaraj’', 'ORG')
('1930', 'DATE')
('Ambedkar', 'PERSON')
('Depressed Classes\nAssociation', 'ORG')
('March 1930', 'DATE')
('Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG')
('Dandi', 'GPE')
('March 1931', 'DATE')
('Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG')
('December 1931', 'DATE')
('Second', 'ORDINAL')
('1932', 'DATE')
('2020-21', 'DATE')
('43', 'CARDINAL')
('India', 'GPE')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('3.3', 'CARDINAL')
('The Limits of Civil Disobedience', 'WORK_OF_ART')
('One', 'CARDINAL')
('the 1930s', 'DATE')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Hindus', 'NORP')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('a hundred years', 'DATE')
('Indians', 'NORP')
('the Civil Disobedience\nMovement', 'ORG')
('first', 'ORDINAL')
('2020-21', 'DATE')
('India', 'GPE')
('the Contemporary World', 'ORG')
('44', 'DATE')
('Dalit', 'PERSON')
('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG')
('Maharashtra', 'ORG')
('Nagpur', 'GPE')
('B.R. Ambedkar', 'PERSON')
('the Depressed\nClasses Association', 'ORG')
('1930', 'DATE')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('second', 'ORDINAL')
('Round Table Conference', 'EVENT')
('British', 'NORP')
('Ambedkar', 'PERSON')
('Gandhiji', 'PERSON')
('Ambedkar', 'PERSON')
('Gandhiji', 'PERSON')
('the Poona Pact', 'LAW')
('September 1932', 'DATE')
('the Depressed Classes', 'ORG')
('Muslim', 'NORP')
('India', 'GPE')
('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG')
('the Non-Cooperation-Khilafat', 'LAW')
('Muslims', 'NORP')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Hindu', 'NORP')
('the Hindu Mahasabha', 'PERSON')
('Hindus', 'NORP')
('Muslims', 'NORP')
('Hindu', 'NORP')
('two', 'CARDINAL')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Muslim League', 'ORG')
('1927', 'DATE')
('Muhammad Ali', 'PERSON')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Maulana Azad', 'PERSON')
('Sevagram Ashram', 'ORG')
('Wardha', 'GPE')
('1935', 'DATE')
('2020-21', 'DATE')
('45', 'CARDINAL')
('India', 'GPE')
('Jinnah', 'GPE')
('one', 'CARDINAL')
('the Muslim League', 'ORG')
('Muslims', 'NORP')
('the Central Assembly', 'ORG')
('Muslim', 'NORP')
('Bengal', 'PERSON')
('Punjab', 'PERSON')
('1928', 'DATE')
('M.R. Jayakar', 'PERSON')
('Hindu', 'NORP')
('Mahasabha', 'PERSON')
('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Muslims', 'NORP')
('Muslim', 'NORP')
('Muslims', 'NORP')
('India', 'GPE')
('Hindu', 'NORP')
('1930', 'DATE')
('Muhammad Iqbal', 'PERSON')
('the Muslim League', 'ORG')
('Muslims', 'NORP')
('Pakistan', 'GPE')
('subsequent years', 'DATE')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('India', 'GPE')
('Quran', 'GPE')
('India', 'GPE')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('European', 'NORP')
('European', 'NORP')
('India', 'GPE')
('Muslim', 'NORP')
('Muslim', 'NORP')
('India', 'GPE')
('Hindu', 'NORP')
('India', 'GPE')
('Muslims', 'NORP')
('Punjab', 'PERSON')
('Iqbal', 'ORG')
('2020-21', 'CARDINAL')
('India', 'GPE')
('the Contemporary World', 'ORG')
('46', 'DATE')
('4', 'CARDINAL')
('The Sense of Collective Belonging\n', 'WORK_OF_ART')
('Bal Gangadhar Tilak', 'PERSON')
('Tilak', 'ORG')
('2020-21', 'DATE')
('47', 'DATE')
('India', 'GPE')
('Chapter 1', 'LAW')
('twentieth', 'ORDINAL')
('India', 'GPE')
('Bharat Mata', 'GPE')
('first', 'ORDINAL')
('Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay', 'ORG')
('the\n1870s', 'DATE')
('Vande Mataram', 'WORK_OF_ART')
('Anandamath', 'WORK_OF_ART')
('Swadeshi', 'ORG')
('Bengal', 'GPE')
('Swadeshi', 'ORG')
('Abanindranath Tagore', 'ORG')
('12', 'CARDINAL')
('Bharat Mata', 'PERSON')
('subsequent years', 'DATE')
('Bharat Mata', 'PERSON')
('14', 'CARDINAL')
('one', 'CARDINAL')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('late-nineteenth-century', 'DATE')
('India', 'GPE')
('one', 'CARDINAL')
('Bengal', 'GPE')
('12', 'CARDINAL')
('Bharat Mata', 'WORK_OF_ART')
('Abanindranath Tagore', 'PERSON')
('1905', 'DATE')
('Abanindranath Tagore', 'PERSON')
('Ravi Varma', 'PERSON')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('Bharat Mata', 'PERSON')
('India', 'GPE')
('Bharat Mata', 'PERSON')
('2020-21', 'CARDINAL')
('India', 'GPE')
('the Contemporary World', 'ORG')
('48', 'DATE')
('India', 'GPE')
('Arya', 'PERSON')
('days', 'DATE')
('Hindus', 'NORP')
('Tartar', 'GPE')
('China', 'GPE')
('India', 'GPE')
('Tarinicharan', 'GPE')
('The History of Bharatbarsh', 'WORK_OF_ART')
('1, 1858', 'DATE')
('Madras', 'GPE')
('Natesa Sastri', 'ORG')
('four', 'CARDINAL')
('Tamil', 'PERSON')
('The Folklore of  Southern India', 'WORK_OF_ART')
('Swadeshi', 'ORG')
('Bengal', 'GPE')
('eight', 'CARDINAL')
('eight', 'CARDINAL')
('British', 'NORP')
('India', 'GPE')
('a crescent moon', 'QUANTITY')
('Hindus', 'NORP')
('Muslims', 'NORP')
('1921', 'DATE')
('Swaraj', 'NORP')
('Gandhian', 'NORP')
('the end of the nineteenth century', 'DATE')
('Indians', 'NORP')
('Indian', 'NORP')
('British', 'NORP')
('Indians', 'NORP')
('Indians', 'NORP')
('India', 'GPE')
('India', 'GPE')
('India', 'GPE')
('British', 'NORP')
('Hindu', 'NORP')
('Hindu', 'NORP')
('14a', 'DATE')
('Bharat Mata', 'PERSON')
('Bharat Mata', 'PERSON')
('Abanindranath Tagore', 'PERSON')
('Figs', 'ORG')
('14', 'DATE')
('2020-21', 'DATE')
('49', 'DATE')
('India', 'GPE')
('Indians', 'NORP')
('the first half', 'DATE')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Mahatma Gandhi', 'PERSON')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('one', 'CARDINAL')
('Congress', 'ORG')
('Quit India Movement', 'ORG')
('the Cripps Mission', 'ORG')
('World War II', 'EVENT')
('India', 'GPE')
('British', 'NORP')
('India', 'GPE')
('The Congress Working\nCommittee', 'ORG')
('Wardha', 'GPE')
('14 July 1942', 'DATE')
('Quit India', 'WORK_OF_ART')
('Indians', 'NORP')
('India', 'GPE')
('8 August 1942', 'DATE')
('Bombay', 'GPE')
('the All India Congress Committee', 'ORG')
('Gandhiji', 'PERSON')
('Die', 'PERSON')
('Quit India', 'WORK_OF_ART')
('thousands', 'CARDINAL')
('Jayprakash Narayan', 'PERSON')
('Asaf Ali', 'PERSON')
('Ram Manohar Lohia', 'PERSON')
('Matangini Hazra', 'PERSON')
('Bengal', 'GPE')
('Kanaklata Barua', 'PERSON')
('Assam', 'GPE')
('Rama Devi', 'PERSON')
('Odisha', 'GPE')
('British', 'NORP')
('14b', 'DATE')
('Bombay', 'GPE')
('the Quit\n', 'ORG')
('2020-21', 'DATE')
('India', 'GPE')
('the Contemporary World', 'ORG')
('50', 'CARDINAL')
('1', 'CARDINAL')
('the Non-Cooperation Movement', 'ORG')
('1921', 'DATE')
('three', 'CARDINAL')
('2', 'CARDINAL')
('the Salt March', 'GPE')
('3', 'CARDINAL')
('the Civil Disobedience Movement', 'ORG')
('4', 'CARDINAL')
('Indo', 'GPE')
('China', 'GPE')
('India', 'GPE')
('Indo', 'GPE')
('China', 'GPE')
('1', 'CARDINAL')
('the First World War', 'EVENT')
('the National Movement', 'ORG')
('India', 'GPE')
('Indians', 'NORP')
('the Rowlatt Act', 'LAW')
('the Non-Cooperation Movement', 'ORG')
('2', 'CARDINAL')
('3', 'CARDINAL')
('The Jallianwala Bagh', 'EVENT')
('The Simon Commission', 'ORG')
('4', 'DATE')
('Bharat Mata', 'PERSON')
('Germania', 'GPE')
('Chapter 1', 'LAW')
('2020-21', 'CARDINAL')
0
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1783653/computing-precision-and-recall-in-named-entity-recognition Precison: 149/203=73.4% Recall:

displacy.render(doc1, jupyter=True, style='ent')
displacy.render(doc, style='dep',jupyter=True)
Polyglot
!pip3 install -U git+https://github.com/aboSamoor/polyglot.git@master
!polyglot download embeddings2.en ner2.en
from polyglot.text import Text
Text(text).entities
print(len(Text(text).entities))
precison: 96/126=76%

Text Summarization
Bart
!pip install transformers
from transformers import BartForConditionalGeneration, BartTokenizer, BartConfig
Collecting transformers
  Downloading transformers-4.9.1-py3-none-any.whl (2.6 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 2.6 MB 7.8 MB/s 
Requirement already satisfied: regex!=2019.12.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (2019.12.20)
Collecting sacremoses
  Downloading sacremoses-0.0.45-py3-none-any.whl (895 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 895 kB 64.4 MB/s 
Collecting tokenizers<0.11,>=0.10.1
  Downloading tokenizers-0.10.3-cp37-cp37m-manylinux_2_5_x86_64.manylinux1_x86_64.manylinux_2_12_x86_64.manylinux2010_x86_64.whl (3.3 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 3.3 MB 52.5 MB/s 
Collecting pyyaml>=5.1
  Downloading PyYAML-5.4.1-cp37-cp37m-manylinux1_x86_64.whl (636 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 636 kB 44.1 MB/s 
Collecting huggingface-hub==0.0.12
  Downloading huggingface_hub-0.0.12-py3-none-any.whl (37 kB)
Requirement already satisfied: requests in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (2.23.0)
Requirement already satisfied: tqdm>=4.27 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (4.41.1)
Requirement already satisfied: filelock in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (3.0.12)
Requirement already satisfied: importlib-metadata in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (4.6.1)
Requirement already satisfied: numpy>=1.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (1.19.5)
Requirement already satisfied: packaging in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers) (21.0)
Requirement already satisfied: typing-extensions in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from huggingface-hub==0.0.12->transformers) (3.7.4.3)
Requirement already satisfied: pyparsing>=2.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from packaging->transformers) (2.4.7)
Requirement already satisfied: zipp>=0.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from importlib-metadata->transformers) (3.5.0)
Requirement already satisfied: chardet<4,>=3.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers) (3.0.4)
Requirement already satisfied: urllib3!=1.25.0,!=1.25.1,<1.26,>=1.21.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers) (1.24.3)
Requirement already satisfied: idna<3,>=2.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers) (2.10)
Requirement already satisfied: certifi>=2017.4.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers) (2021.5.30)
Requirement already satisfied: six in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sacremoses->transformers) (1.15.0)
Requirement already satisfied: joblib in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sacremoses->transformers) (1.0.1)
Requirement already satisfied: click in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sacremoses->transformers) (7.1.2)
Installing collected packages: tokenizers, sacremoses, pyyaml, huggingface-hub, transformers
  Attempting uninstall: pyyaml
    Found existing installation: PyYAML 3.13
    Uninstalling PyYAML-3.13:
      Successfully uninstalled PyYAML-3.13
Successfully installed huggingface-hub-0.0.12 pyyaml-5.4.1 sacremoses-0.0.45 tokenizers-0.10.3 transformers-4.9.1
tokenizer=BartTokenizer.from_pretrained('facebook/bart-large-cnn')
model=BartForConditionalGeneration.from_pretrained('facebook/bart-large-cnn')
HBox(children=(FloatProgress(value=0.0, description='Downloading', max=898823.0, style=ProgressStyle(descripti…
HBox(children=(FloatProgress(value=0.0, description='Downloading', max=456318.0, style=ProgressStyle(descripti…
HBox(children=(FloatProgress(value=0.0, description='Downloading', max=1355863.0, style=ProgressStyle(descript…
HBox(children=(FloatProgress(value=0.0, description='Downloading', max=1585.0, style=ProgressStyle(description…
HBox(children=(FloatProgress(value=0.0, description='Downloading', max=1625270765.0, style=ProgressStyle(descr…
inputs = tokenizer.batch_encode_plus([text],return_tensors='pt')
summary_ids = model.generate(inputs['input_ids'], early_stopping=True)
Token indices sequence length is longer than the specified maximum sequence length for this model (12409 > 1024). Running this sequence through the model will result in indexing errors
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
IndexError                                Traceback (most recent call last)
<ipython-input-6-1d236877ff22> in <module>()
      1 inputs = tokenizer.batch_encode_plus([text],return_tensors='pt')
----> 2 summary_ids = model.generate(inputs['input_ids'], early_stopping=True)

/usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages/torch/autograd/grad_mode.py in decorate_context(*args, **kwargs)
     26         def decorate_context(*args, **kwargs):
     27             with self.__class__():
---> 28                 return func(*args, **kwargs)
     29         return cast(F, decorate_context)
     30 

/usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages/transformers/generation_utils.py in generate(self, input_ids, max_length, min_length, do_sample, early_stopping, num_beams, temperature, top_k, top_p, repetition_penalty, bad_words_ids, bos_token_id, pad_token_id, eos_token_id, length_penalty, no_repeat_ngram_size, encoder_no_repeat_ngram_size, num_return_sequences, max_time, max_new_tokens, decoder_start_token_id, use_cache, num_beam_groups, diversity_penalty, prefix_allowed_tokens_fn, output_attentions, output_hidden_states, output_scores, return_dict_in_generate, forced_bos_token_id, forced_eos_token_id, remove_invalid_values, synced_gpus, **model_kwargs)
    920         if self.config.is_encoder_decoder:
    921             # add encoder_outputs to model_kwargs
--> 922             model_kwargs = self._prepare_encoder_decoder_kwargs_for_generation(input_ids, model_kwargs)
    923 
    924             # set input_ids as decoder_input_ids

/usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages/transformers/generation_utils.py in _prepare_encoder_decoder_kwargs_for_generation(self, input_ids, model_kwargs)
    415                 if not (argument.startswith("decoder_") or argument.startswith("cross_attn"))
    416             }
--> 417             model_kwargs["encoder_outputs"]: ModelOutput = encoder(input_ids, return_dict=True, **encoder_kwargs)
    418         return model_kwargs
    419 

/usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages/torch/nn/modules/module.py in _call_impl(self, *input, **kwargs)
   1049         if not (self._backward_hooks or self._forward_hooks or self._forward_pre_hooks or _global_backward_hooks
   1050                 or _global_forward_hooks or _global_forward_pre_hooks):
-> 1051             return forward_call(*input, **kwargs)
   1052         # Do not call functions when jit is used
   1053         full_backward_hooks, non_full_backward_hooks = [], []

/usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages/transformers/models/bart/modeling_bart.py in forward(self, input_ids, attention_mask, head_mask, inputs_embeds, output_attentions, output_hidden_states, return_dict)
    756             inputs_embeds = self.embed_tokens(input_ids) * self.embed_scale
    757 
--> 758         embed_pos = self.embed_positions(input_shape)
    759 
    760         hidden_states = inputs_embeds + embed_pos

/usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages/torch/nn/modules/module.py in _call_impl(self, *input, **kwargs)
   1049         if not (self._backward_hooks or self._forward_hooks or self._forward_pre_hooks or _global_backward_hooks
   1050                 or _global_forward_hooks or _global_forward_pre_hooks):
-> 1051             return forward_call(*input, **kwargs)
   1052         # Do not call functions when jit is used
   1053         full_backward_hooks, non_full_backward_hooks = [], []

/usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages/transformers/models/bart/modeling_bart.py in forward(self, input_ids_shape, past_key_values_length)
    121             past_key_values_length, past_key_values_length + seq_len, dtype=torch.long, device=self.weight.device
    122         )
--> 123         return super().forward(positions + self.offset)
    124 
    125 

/usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages/torch/nn/modules/sparse.py in forward(self, input)
    158         return F.embedding(
    159             input, self.weight, self.padding_idx, self.max_norm,
--> 160             self.norm_type, self.scale_grad_by_freq, self.sparse)
    161 
    162     def extra_repr(self) -> str:

/usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages/torch/nn/functional.py in embedding(input, weight, padding_idx, max_norm, norm_type, scale_grad_by_freq, sparse)
   2041         # remove once script supports set_grad_enabled
   2042         _no_grad_embedding_renorm_(weight, input, max_norm, norm_type)
-> 2043     return torch.embedding(weight, input, padding_idx, scale_grad_by_freq, sparse)
   2044 
   2045 

IndexError: index out of range in self
print(text1)
bart_summary = tokenizer.decode(summary_ids[0], skip_special_tokens=True)
print(bart_summary)
Bert-extractive-summary
#using bert for extractive summary
!pip install bert-extractive-summarizer
Collecting bert-extractive-summarizer
  Downloading bert_extractive_summarizer-0.7.1-py3-none-any.whl (18 kB)
Requirement already satisfied: spacy in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from bert-extractive-summarizer) (2.2.4)
Requirement already satisfied: transformers in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from bert-extractive-summarizer) (4.9.1)
Requirement already satisfied: scikit-learn in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from bert-extractive-summarizer) (0.22.2.post1)
Requirement already satisfied: joblib>=0.11 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from scikit-learn->bert-extractive-summarizer) (1.0.1)
Requirement already satisfied: scipy>=0.17.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from scikit-learn->bert-extractive-summarizer) (1.4.1)
Requirement already satisfied: numpy>=1.11.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from scikit-learn->bert-extractive-summarizer) (1.19.5)
Requirement already satisfied: blis<0.5.0,>=0.4.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (0.4.1)
Requirement already satisfied: srsly<1.1.0,>=1.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (1.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: tqdm<5.0.0,>=4.38.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (4.41.1)
Requirement already satisfied: wasabi<1.1.0,>=0.4.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (0.8.2)
Requirement already satisfied: setuptools in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (57.2.0)
Requirement already satisfied: thinc==7.4.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (7.4.0)
Requirement already satisfied: cymem<2.1.0,>=2.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (2.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: preshed<3.1.0,>=3.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (3.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: plac<1.2.0,>=0.9.6 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (1.1.3)
Requirement already satisfied: murmurhash<1.1.0,>=0.28.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (1.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (2.23.0)
Requirement already satisfied: catalogue<1.1.0,>=0.0.7 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (1.0.0)
Requirement already satisfied: importlib-metadata>=0.20 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from catalogue<1.1.0,>=0.0.7->spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (4.6.1)
Requirement already satisfied: zipp>=0.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from importlib-metadata>=0.20->catalogue<1.1.0,>=0.0.7->spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (3.5.0)
Requirement already satisfied: typing-extensions>=3.6.4 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from importlib-metadata>=0.20->catalogue<1.1.0,>=0.0.7->spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (3.7.4.3)
Requirement already satisfied: urllib3!=1.25.0,!=1.25.1,<1.26,>=1.21.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (1.24.3)
Requirement already satisfied: certifi>=2017.4.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (2021.5.30)
Requirement already satisfied: idna<3,>=2.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (2.10)
Requirement already satisfied: chardet<4,>=3.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy->bert-extractive-summarizer) (3.0.4)
Requirement already satisfied: filelock in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers->bert-extractive-summarizer) (3.0.12)
Requirement already satisfied: huggingface-hub==0.0.12 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers->bert-extractive-summarizer) (0.0.12)
Requirement already satisfied: packaging in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers->bert-extractive-summarizer) (21.0)
Requirement already satisfied: pyyaml>=5.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers->bert-extractive-summarizer) (5.4.1)
Requirement already satisfied: sacremoses in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers->bert-extractive-summarizer) (0.0.45)
Requirement already satisfied: tokenizers<0.11,>=0.10.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers->bert-extractive-summarizer) (0.10.3)
Requirement already satisfied: regex!=2019.12.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers->bert-extractive-summarizer) (2019.12.20)
Requirement already satisfied: pyparsing>=2.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from packaging->transformers->bert-extractive-summarizer) (2.4.7)
Requirement already satisfied: click in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sacremoses->transformers->bert-extractive-summarizer) (7.1.2)
Requirement already satisfied: six in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sacremoses->transformers->bert-extractive-summarizer) (1.15.0)
Installing collected packages: bert-extractive-summarizer
Successfully installed bert-extractive-summarizer-0.7.1
pip install sentencepiece
Collecting sentencepiece
  Downloading sentencepiece-0.1.96-cp37-cp37m-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.manylinux2014_x86_64.whl (1.2 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 1.2 MB 7.8 MB/s 
Installing collected packages: sentencepiece
Successfully installed sentencepiece-0.1.96
!pip install gensim
!pip install git+https://github.com/boudinfl/pke.git
!python -m spacy download en
!pip install bert-extractive-summarizer --upgrade --force-reinstall
!pip install spacy==2.1.3 --upgrade --force-reinstall
!pip install -U nltk
!pip install -U pywsd
import nltk
nltk.download('stopwords')
nltk.download('popular')
!pip install sentencepiece
!pip install BigBirdTokenizer
!pip install sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1
!pip install transformers==2.6.0
Requirement already satisfied: gensim in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (3.6.0)
Requirement already satisfied: smart-open>=1.2.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from gensim) (5.1.0)
Requirement already satisfied: six>=1.5.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from gensim) (1.15.0)
Requirement already satisfied: scipy>=0.18.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from gensim) (1.4.1)
Requirement already satisfied: numpy>=1.11.3 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from gensim) (1.19.5)
Collecting git+https://github.com/boudinfl/pke.git
  Cloning https://github.com/boudinfl/pke.git to /tmp/pip-req-build-yl_6slxp
  Running command git clone -q https://github.com/boudinfl/pke.git /tmp/pip-req-build-yl_6slxp
Requirement already satisfied: nltk in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pke==1.8.1) (3.2.5)
Requirement already satisfied: networkx in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pke==1.8.1) (2.5.1)
Requirement already satisfied: numpy in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pke==1.8.1) (1.19.5)
Requirement already satisfied: scipy in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pke==1.8.1) (1.4.1)
Requirement already satisfied: spacy in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pke==1.8.1) (2.2.4)
Requirement already satisfied: six in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pke==1.8.1) (1.15.0)
Requirement already satisfied: sklearn in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pke==1.8.1) (0.0)
Collecting unidecode
  Downloading Unidecode-1.2.0-py2.py3-none-any.whl (241 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 241 kB 8.3 MB/s 
Requirement already satisfied: future in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pke==1.8.1) (0.16.0)
Requirement already satisfied: joblib in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pke==1.8.1) (1.0.1)
Requirement already satisfied: decorator<5,>=4.3 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from networkx->pke==1.8.1) (4.4.2)
Requirement already satisfied: scikit-learn in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sklearn->pke==1.8.1) (0.22.2.post1)
Requirement already satisfied: setuptools in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->pke==1.8.1) (57.2.0)
Requirement already satisfied: murmurhash<1.1.0,>=0.28.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->pke==1.8.1) (1.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: catalogue<1.1.0,>=0.0.7 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->pke==1.8.1) (1.0.0)
Requirement already satisfied: wasabi<1.1.0,>=0.4.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->pke==1.8.1) (0.8.2)
Requirement already satisfied: srsly<1.1.0,>=1.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->pke==1.8.1) (1.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: tqdm<5.0.0,>=4.38.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->pke==1.8.1) (4.41.1)
Requirement already satisfied: plac<1.2.0,>=0.9.6 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->pke==1.8.1) (1.1.3)
Requirement already satisfied: requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->pke==1.8.1) (2.23.0)
Requirement already satisfied: thinc==7.4.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->pke==1.8.1) (7.4.0)
Requirement already satisfied: cymem<2.1.0,>=2.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->pke==1.8.1) (2.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: blis<0.5.0,>=0.4.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->pke==1.8.1) (0.4.1)
Requirement already satisfied: preshed<3.1.0,>=3.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy->pke==1.8.1) (3.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: importlib-metadata>=0.20 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from catalogue<1.1.0,>=0.0.7->spacy->pke==1.8.1) (4.6.1)
Requirement already satisfied: zipp>=0.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from importlib-metadata>=0.20->catalogue<1.1.0,>=0.0.7->spacy->pke==1.8.1) (3.5.0)
Requirement already satisfied: typing-extensions>=3.6.4 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from importlib-metadata>=0.20->catalogue<1.1.0,>=0.0.7->spacy->pke==1.8.1) (3.7.4.3)
Requirement already satisfied: urllib3!=1.25.0,!=1.25.1,<1.26,>=1.21.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy->pke==1.8.1) (1.24.3)
Requirement already satisfied: idna<3,>=2.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy->pke==1.8.1) (2.10)
Requirement already satisfied: chardet<4,>=3.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy->pke==1.8.1) (3.0.4)
Requirement already satisfied: certifi>=2017.4.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy->pke==1.8.1) (2021.5.30)
Building wheels for collected packages: pke
  Building wheel for pke (setup.py) ... done
  Created wheel for pke: filename=pke-1.8.1-py3-none-any.whl size=8763773 sha256=e0d932f886deaa95328b7dcfd24be87ec88423d75c20aacb5b88a68aa3ba1bb6
  Stored in directory: /tmp/pip-ephem-wheel-cache-_zhq41ov/wheels/fa/b3/09/612ee93bf3ee4164bcd5783e742942cdfc892a86039d3e0a33
Successfully built pke
Installing collected packages: unidecode, pke
Successfully installed pke-1.8.1 unidecode-1.2.0
Collecting en_core_web_sm==2.2.5
  Downloading https://github.com/explosion/spacy-models/releases/download/en_core_web_sm-2.2.5/en_core_web_sm-2.2.5.tar.gz (12.0 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 12.0 MB 7.9 MB/s 
Requirement already satisfied: spacy>=2.2.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (2.2.4)
Requirement already satisfied: requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (2.23.0)
Requirement already satisfied: blis<0.5.0,>=0.4.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (0.4.1)
Requirement already satisfied: catalogue<1.1.0,>=0.0.7 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (1.0.0)
Requirement already satisfied: cymem<2.1.0,>=2.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (2.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: murmurhash<1.1.0,>=0.28.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (1.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: wasabi<1.1.0,>=0.4.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (0.8.2)
Requirement already satisfied: preshed<3.1.0,>=3.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (3.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: tqdm<5.0.0,>=4.38.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (4.41.1)
Requirement already satisfied: setuptools in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (57.2.0)
Requirement already satisfied: numpy>=1.15.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (1.19.5)
Requirement already satisfied: srsly<1.1.0,>=1.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (1.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: plac<1.2.0,>=0.9.6 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (1.1.3)
Requirement already satisfied: thinc==7.4.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (7.4.0)
Requirement already satisfied: importlib-metadata>=0.20 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from catalogue<1.1.0,>=0.0.7->spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (4.6.1)
Requirement already satisfied: zipp>=0.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from importlib-metadata>=0.20->catalogue<1.1.0,>=0.0.7->spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (3.5.0)
Requirement already satisfied: typing-extensions>=3.6.4 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from importlib-metadata>=0.20->catalogue<1.1.0,>=0.0.7->spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (3.7.4.3)
Requirement already satisfied: urllib3!=1.25.0,!=1.25.1,<1.26,>=1.21.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (1.24.3)
Requirement already satisfied: certifi>=2017.4.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (2021.5.30)
Requirement already satisfied: idna<3,>=2.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (2.10)
Requirement already satisfied: chardet<4,>=3.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy>=2.2.2->en_core_web_sm==2.2.5) (3.0.4)
✔ Download and installation successful
You can now load the model via spacy.load('en_core_web_sm')
✔ Linking successful
/usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages/en_core_web_sm -->
/usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages/spacy/data/en
You can now load the model via spacy.load('en')
Collecting bert-extractive-summarizer
  Using cached bert_extractive_summarizer-0.7.1-py3-none-any.whl (18 kB)
Collecting spacy
  Downloading spacy-3.1.1-cp37-cp37m-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.manylinux2014_x86_64.whl (6.4 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 6.4 MB 8.1 MB/s 
Collecting transformers
  Using cached transformers-4.9.1-py3-none-any.whl (2.6 MB)
Collecting scikit-learn
  Downloading scikit_learn-0.24.2-cp37-cp37m-manylinux2010_x86_64.whl (22.3 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 22.3 MB 38 kB/s 
Collecting threadpoolctl>=2.0.0
  Downloading threadpoolctl-2.2.0-py3-none-any.whl (12 kB)
Collecting numpy>=1.13.3
  Downloading numpy-1.21.1-cp37-cp37m-manylinux_2_12_x86_64.manylinux2010_x86_64.whl (15.7 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 15.7 MB 77 kB/s 
Collecting joblib>=0.11
  Downloading joblib-1.0.1-py3-none-any.whl (303 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 303 kB 48.9 MB/s 
Collecting scipy>=0.19.1
  Downloading scipy-1.7.1-cp37-cp37m-manylinux_2_5_x86_64.manylinux1_x86_64.whl (28.5 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 28.5 MB 47 kB/s 
Collecting packaging>=20.0
  Downloading packaging-21.0-py3-none-any.whl (40 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 40 kB 5.7 MB/s 
Collecting pathy>=0.3.5
  Downloading pathy-0.6.0-py3-none-any.whl (42 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 42 kB 1.4 MB/s 
Collecting typing-extensions<4.0.0.0,>=3.7.4
  Downloading typing_extensions-3.10.0.0-py3-none-any.whl (26 kB)
Collecting jinja2
  Downloading Jinja2-3.0.1-py3-none-any.whl (133 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 133 kB 65.6 MB/s 
Collecting wasabi<1.1.0,>=0.8.1
  Downloading wasabi-0.8.2-py3-none-any.whl (23 kB)
Collecting setuptools
  Downloading setuptools-57.4.0-py3-none-any.whl (819 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 819 kB 43.1 MB/s 
Collecting cymem<2.1.0,>=2.0.2
  Downloading cymem-2.0.5-cp37-cp37m-manylinux2014_x86_64.whl (35 kB)
Collecting murmurhash<1.1.0,>=0.28.0
  Downloading murmurhash-1.0.5-cp37-cp37m-manylinux2014_x86_64.whl (20 kB)
Collecting typer<0.4.0,>=0.3.0
  Downloading typer-0.3.2-py3-none-any.whl (21 kB)
Collecting requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0
  Downloading requests-2.26.0-py2.py3-none-any.whl (62 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 62 kB 854 kB/s 
Collecting preshed<3.1.0,>=3.0.2
  Downloading preshed-3.0.5-cp37-cp37m-manylinux2014_x86_64.whl (126 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 126 kB 58.8 MB/s 
Collecting spacy-legacy<3.1.0,>=3.0.7
  Downloading spacy_legacy-3.0.8-py2.py3-none-any.whl (14 kB)
Collecting catalogue<2.1.0,>=2.0.4
  Downloading catalogue-2.0.4-py3-none-any.whl (16 kB)
Collecting thinc<8.1.0,>=8.0.8
  Downloading thinc-8.0.8-cp37-cp37m-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.manylinux2014_x86_64.whl (621 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 621 kB 41.0 MB/s 
Collecting pydantic!=1.8,!=1.8.1,<1.9.0,>=1.7.4
  Downloading pydantic-1.8.2-cp37-cp37m-manylinux2014_x86_64.whl (10.1 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 10.1 MB 25.7 MB/s 
Collecting tqdm<5.0.0,>=4.38.0
  Downloading tqdm-4.62.0-py2.py3-none-any.whl (76 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 76 kB 4.1 MB/s 
Collecting blis<0.8.0,>=0.4.0
  Downloading blis-0.7.4-cp37-cp37m-manylinux2014_x86_64.whl (9.8 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 9.8 MB 37.9 MB/s 
Collecting srsly<3.0.0,>=2.4.1
  Downloading srsly-2.4.1-cp37-cp37m-manylinux2014_x86_64.whl (456 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 456 kB 58.5 MB/s 
Collecting zipp>=0.5
  Downloading zipp-3.5.0-py3-none-any.whl (5.7 kB)
Collecting pyparsing>=2.0.2
  Downloading pyparsing-2.4.7-py2.py3-none-any.whl (67 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 67 kB 6.0 MB/s 
Collecting smart-open<6.0.0,>=5.0.0
  Downloading smart_open-5.1.0-py3-none-any.whl (57 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 57 kB 4.8 MB/s 
Collecting certifi>=2017.4.17
  Downloading certifi-2021.5.30-py2.py3-none-any.whl (145 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 145 kB 76.6 MB/s 
Collecting charset-normalizer~=2.0.0
  Downloading charset_normalizer-2.0.4-py3-none-any.whl (36 kB)
Collecting urllib3<1.27,>=1.21.1
  Downloading urllib3-1.26.6-py2.py3-none-any.whl (138 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 138 kB 78.1 MB/s 
Collecting idna<4,>=2.5
  Downloading idna-3.2-py3-none-any.whl (59 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 59 kB 6.9 MB/s 
Collecting click<7.2.0,>=7.1.1
  Downloading click-7.1.2-py2.py3-none-any.whl (82 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 82 kB 1.1 MB/s 
Collecting MarkupSafe>=2.0
  Downloading MarkupSafe-2.0.1-cp37-cp37m-manylinux2010_x86_64.whl (31 kB)
Collecting importlib-metadata
  Downloading importlib_metadata-4.6.3-py3-none-any.whl (17 kB)
Collecting tokenizers<0.11,>=0.10.1
  Using cached tokenizers-0.10.3-cp37-cp37m-manylinux_2_5_x86_64.manylinux1_x86_64.manylinux_2_12_x86_64.manylinux2010_x86_64.whl (3.3 MB)
Collecting pyyaml>=5.1
  Using cached PyYAML-5.4.1-cp37-cp37m-manylinux1_x86_64.whl (636 kB)
Collecting filelock
  Downloading filelock-3.0.12-py3-none-any.whl (7.6 kB)
Collecting regex!=2019.12.17
  Downloading regex-2021.8.3-cp37-cp37m-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.manylinux2014_x86_64.whl (722 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 722 kB 44.9 MB/s 
Collecting huggingface-hub==0.0.12
  Using cached huggingface_hub-0.0.12-py3-none-any.whl (37 kB)
Collecting sacremoses
  Using cached sacremoses-0.0.45-py3-none-any.whl (895 kB)
Collecting six
  Downloading six-1.16.0-py2.py3-none-any.whl (11 kB)
Installing collected packages: zipp, typing-extensions, urllib3, pyparsing, numpy, murmurhash, idna, cymem, click, charset-normalizer, certifi, catalogue, wasabi, typer, tqdm, srsly, smart-open, six, setuptools, requests, regex, pydantic, preshed, packaging, MarkupSafe, joblib, importlib-metadata, filelock, blis, tokenizers, threadpoolctl, thinc, spacy-legacy, scipy, sacremoses, pyyaml, pathy, jinja2, huggingface-hub, transformers, spacy, scikit-learn, bert-extractive-summarizer
  Attempting uninstall: zipp
    Found existing installation: zipp 3.5.0
    Uninstalling zipp-3.5.0:
      Successfully uninstalled zipp-3.5.0
  Attempting uninstall: typing-extensions
    Found existing installation: typing-extensions 3.7.4.3
    Uninstalling typing-extensions-3.7.4.3:
      Successfully uninstalled typing-extensions-3.7.4.3
  Attempting uninstall: urllib3
    Found existing installation: urllib3 1.24.3
    Uninstalling urllib3-1.24.3:
      Successfully uninstalled urllib3-1.24.3
  Attempting uninstall: pyparsing
    Found existing installation: pyparsing 2.4.7
    Uninstalling pyparsing-2.4.7:
      Successfully uninstalled pyparsing-2.4.7
  Attempting uninstall: numpy
    Found existing installation: numpy 1.19.5
    Uninstalling numpy-1.19.5:
      Successfully uninstalled numpy-1.19.5
  Attempting uninstall: murmurhash
    Found existing installation: murmurhash 1.0.5
    Uninstalling murmurhash-1.0.5:
      Successfully uninstalled murmurhash-1.0.5
  Attempting uninstall: idna
    Found existing installation: idna 2.10
    Uninstalling idna-2.10:
      Successfully uninstalled idna-2.10
  Attempting uninstall: cymem
    Found existing installation: cymem 2.0.5
    Uninstalling cymem-2.0.5:
      Successfully uninstalled cymem-2.0.5
  Attempting uninstall: click
    Found existing installation: click 7.1.2
    Uninstalling click-7.1.2:
      Successfully uninstalled click-7.1.2
  Attempting uninstall: charset-normalizer
    Found existing installation: charset-normalizer 2.0.2
    Uninstalling charset-normalizer-2.0.2:
      Successfully uninstalled charset-normalizer-2.0.2
  Attempting uninstall: certifi
    Found existing installation: certifi 2021.5.30
    Uninstalling certifi-2021.5.30:
      Successfully uninstalled certifi-2021.5.30
  Attempting uninstall: catalogue
    Found existing installation: catalogue 1.0.0
    Uninstalling catalogue-1.0.0:
      Successfully uninstalled catalogue-1.0.0
  Attempting uninstall: wasabi
    Found existing installation: wasabi 0.8.2
    Uninstalling wasabi-0.8.2:
      Successfully uninstalled wasabi-0.8.2
  Attempting uninstall: tqdm
    Found existing installation: tqdm 4.41.1
    Uninstalling tqdm-4.41.1:
      Successfully uninstalled tqdm-4.41.1
  Attempting uninstall: srsly
    Found existing installation: srsly 1.0.5
    Uninstalling srsly-1.0.5:
      Successfully uninstalled srsly-1.0.5
  Attempting uninstall: smart-open
    Found existing installation: smart-open 5.1.0
    Uninstalling smart-open-5.1.0:
      Successfully uninstalled smart-open-5.1.0
  Attempting uninstall: six
    Found existing installation: six 1.15.0
    Uninstalling six-1.15.0:
      Successfully uninstalled six-1.15.0
  Attempting uninstall: setuptools
    Found existing installation: setuptools 57.2.0
    Uninstalling setuptools-57.2.0:
      Successfully uninstalled setuptools-57.2.0
  Attempting uninstall: requests
    Found existing installation: requests 2.23.0
    Uninstalling requests-2.23.0:
      Successfully uninstalled requests-2.23.0
  Attempting uninstall: regex
    Found existing installation: regex 2019.12.20
    Uninstalling regex-2019.12.20:
      Successfully uninstalled regex-2019.12.20
  Attempting uninstall: preshed
    Found existing installation: preshed 3.0.5
    Uninstalling preshed-3.0.5:
      Successfully uninstalled preshed-3.0.5
  Attempting uninstall: packaging
    Found existing installation: packaging 21.0
    Uninstalling packaging-21.0:
      Successfully uninstalled packaging-21.0
  Attempting uninstall: MarkupSafe
    Found existing installation: MarkupSafe 2.0.1
    Uninstalling MarkupSafe-2.0.1:
      Successfully uninstalled MarkupSafe-2.0.1
  Attempting uninstall: joblib
    Found existing installation: joblib 1.0.1
    Uninstalling joblib-1.0.1:
      Successfully uninstalled joblib-1.0.1
  Attempting uninstall: importlib-metadata
    Found existing installation: importlib-metadata 4.6.1
    Uninstalling importlib-metadata-4.6.1:
      Successfully uninstalled importlib-metadata-4.6.1
  Attempting uninstall: filelock
    Found existing installation: filelock 3.0.12
    Uninstalling filelock-3.0.12:
      Successfully uninstalled filelock-3.0.12
  Attempting uninstall: blis
    Found existing installation: blis 0.4.1
    Uninstalling blis-0.4.1:
      Successfully uninstalled blis-0.4.1
  Attempting uninstall: tokenizers
    Found existing installation: tokenizers 0.10.3
    Uninstalling tokenizers-0.10.3:
      Successfully uninstalled tokenizers-0.10.3
  Attempting uninstall: thinc
    Found existing installation: thinc 7.4.0
    Uninstalling thinc-7.4.0:
      Successfully uninstalled thinc-7.4.0
  Attempting uninstall: scipy
    Found existing installation: scipy 1.4.1
    Uninstalling scipy-1.4.1:
      Successfully uninstalled scipy-1.4.1
  Attempting uninstall: sacremoses
    Found existing installation: sacremoses 0.0.45
    Uninstalling sacremoses-0.0.45:
      Successfully uninstalled sacremoses-0.0.45
  Attempting uninstall: pyyaml
    Found existing installation: PyYAML 5.4.1
    Uninstalling PyYAML-5.4.1:
      Successfully uninstalled PyYAML-5.4.1
  Attempting uninstall: jinja2
    Found existing installation: Jinja2 2.11.3
    Uninstalling Jinja2-2.11.3:
      Successfully uninstalled Jinja2-2.11.3
  Attempting uninstall: huggingface-hub
    Found existing installation: huggingface-hub 0.0.12
    Uninstalling huggingface-hub-0.0.12:
      Successfully uninstalled huggingface-hub-0.0.12
  Attempting uninstall: transformers
    Found existing installation: transformers 4.9.1
    Uninstalling transformers-4.9.1:
      Successfully uninstalled transformers-4.9.1
  Attempting uninstall: spacy
    Found existing installation: spacy 2.2.4
    Uninstalling spacy-2.2.4:
      Successfully uninstalled spacy-2.2.4
  Attempting uninstall: scikit-learn
    Found existing installation: scikit-learn 0.22.2.post1
    Uninstalling scikit-learn-0.22.2.post1:
      Successfully uninstalled scikit-learn-0.22.2.post1
  Attempting uninstall: bert-extractive-summarizer
    Found existing installation: bert-extractive-summarizer 0.7.1
    Uninstalling bert-extractive-summarizer-0.7.1:
      Successfully uninstalled bert-extractive-summarizer-0.7.1
ERROR: pip's dependency resolver does not currently take into account all the packages that are installed. This behaviour is the source of the following dependency conflicts.
tensorflow 2.5.0 requires numpy~=1.19.2, but you have numpy 1.21.1 which is incompatible.
tensorflow 2.5.0 requires six~=1.15.0, but you have six 1.16.0 which is incompatible.
tensorflow 2.5.0 requires typing-extensions~=3.7.4, but you have typing-extensions 3.10.0.0 which is incompatible.
google-colab 1.0.0 requires requests~=2.23.0, but you have requests 2.26.0 which is incompatible.
google-colab 1.0.0 requires six~=1.15.0, but you have six 1.16.0 which is incompatible.
flask 1.1.4 requires Jinja2<3.0,>=2.10.1, but you have jinja2 3.0.1 which is incompatible.
datascience 0.10.6 requires folium==0.2.1, but you have folium 0.8.3 which is incompatible.
albumentations 0.1.12 requires imgaug<0.2.7,>=0.2.5, but you have imgaug 0.2.9 which is incompatible.
Successfully installed MarkupSafe-2.0.1 bert-extractive-summarizer-0.7.1 blis-0.7.4 catalogue-2.0.4 certifi-2021.5.30 charset-normalizer-2.0.4 click-7.1.2 cymem-2.0.5 filelock-3.0.12 huggingface-hub-0.0.12 idna-3.2 importlib-metadata-4.6.3 jinja2-3.0.1 joblib-1.0.1 murmurhash-1.0.5 numpy-1.21.1 packaging-21.0 pathy-0.6.0 preshed-3.0.5 pydantic-1.8.2 pyparsing-2.4.7 pyyaml-5.4.1 regex-2021.8.3 requests-2.26.0 sacremoses-0.0.45 scikit-learn-0.24.2 scipy-1.7.1 setuptools-57.4.0 six-1.16.0 smart-open-5.1.0 spacy-3.1.1 spacy-legacy-3.0.8 srsly-2.4.1 thinc-8.0.8 threadpoolctl-2.2.0 tokenizers-0.10.3 tqdm-4.62.0 transformers-4.9.1 typer-0.3.2 typing-extensions-3.10.0.0 urllib3-1.26.6 wasabi-0.8.2 zipp-3.5.0
Collecting spacy==2.1.3
  Downloading spacy-2.1.3-cp37-cp37m-manylinux1_x86_64.whl (27.7 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 27.7 MB 1.9 MB/s 
Collecting plac<1.0.0,>=0.9.6
  Downloading plac-0.9.6-py2.py3-none-any.whl (20 kB)
Collecting thinc<7.1.0,>=7.0.2
  Downloading thinc-7.0.8-cp37-cp37m-manylinux1_x86_64.whl (2.1 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 2.1 MB 45.6 MB/s 
Collecting requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0
  Using cached requests-2.26.0-py2.py3-none-any.whl (62 kB)
Collecting wasabi<1.1.0,>=0.2.0
  Using cached wasabi-0.8.2-py3-none-any.whl (23 kB)
Collecting preshed<2.1.0,>=2.0.1
  Downloading preshed-2.0.1-cp37-cp37m-manylinux1_x86_64.whl (82 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 82 kB 432 kB/s 
Collecting murmurhash<1.1.0,>=0.28.0
  Using cached murmurhash-1.0.5-cp37-cp37m-manylinux2014_x86_64.whl (20 kB)
Collecting blis<0.3.0,>=0.2.2
  Downloading blis-0.2.4-cp37-cp37m-manylinux1_x86_64.whl (3.2 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 3.2 MB 60.8 MB/s 
Collecting srsly<1.1.0,>=0.0.5
  Downloading srsly-1.0.5-cp37-cp37m-manylinux2014_x86_64.whl (184 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 184 kB 57.0 MB/s 
Collecting cymem<2.1.0,>=2.0.2
  Using cached cymem-2.0.5-cp37-cp37m-manylinux2014_x86_64.whl (35 kB)
Collecting jsonschema<3.0.0,>=2.6.0
  Downloading jsonschema-2.6.0-py2.py3-none-any.whl (39 kB)
Collecting numpy>=1.15.0
  Using cached numpy-1.21.1-cp37-cp37m-manylinux_2_12_x86_64.manylinux2010_x86_64.whl (15.7 MB)
Collecting charset-normalizer~=2.0.0
  Using cached charset_normalizer-2.0.4-py3-none-any.whl (36 kB)
Collecting certifi>=2017.4.17
  Using cached certifi-2021.5.30-py2.py3-none-any.whl (145 kB)
Collecting urllib3<1.27,>=1.21.1
  Using cached urllib3-1.26.6-py2.py3-none-any.whl (138 kB)
Collecting idna<4,>=2.5
  Using cached idna-3.2-py3-none-any.whl (59 kB)
Collecting tqdm<5.0.0,>=4.10.0
  Using cached tqdm-4.62.0-py2.py3-none-any.whl (76 kB)
Installing collected packages: numpy, cymem, wasabi, urllib3, tqdm, srsly, preshed, plac, murmurhash, idna, charset-normalizer, certifi, blis, thinc, requests, jsonschema, spacy
  Attempting uninstall: numpy
    Found existing installation: numpy 1.21.1
    Uninstalling numpy-1.21.1:
      Successfully uninstalled numpy-1.21.1
  Attempting uninstall: cymem
    Found existing installation: cymem 2.0.5
    Uninstalling cymem-2.0.5:
      Successfully uninstalled cymem-2.0.5
  Attempting uninstall: wasabi
    Found existing installation: wasabi 0.8.2
    Uninstalling wasabi-0.8.2:
      Successfully uninstalled wasabi-0.8.2
  Attempting uninstall: urllib3
    Found existing installation: urllib3 1.26.6
    Uninstalling urllib3-1.26.6:
      Successfully uninstalled urllib3-1.26.6
  Attempting uninstall: tqdm
    Found existing installation: tqdm 4.62.0
    Uninstalling tqdm-4.62.0:
      Successfully uninstalled tqdm-4.62.0
  Attempting uninstall: srsly
    Found existing installation: srsly 2.4.1
    Uninstalling srsly-2.4.1:
      Successfully uninstalled srsly-2.4.1
  Attempting uninstall: preshed
    Found existing installation: preshed 3.0.5
    Uninstalling preshed-3.0.5:
      Successfully uninstalled preshed-3.0.5
  Attempting uninstall: plac
    Found existing installation: plac 1.1.3
    Uninstalling plac-1.1.3:
      Successfully uninstalled plac-1.1.3
  Attempting uninstall: murmurhash
    Found existing installation: murmurhash 1.0.5
    Uninstalling murmurhash-1.0.5:
      Successfully uninstalled murmurhash-1.0.5
  Attempting uninstall: idna
    Found existing installation: idna 3.2
    Uninstalling idna-3.2:
      Successfully uninstalled idna-3.2
  Attempting uninstall: charset-normalizer
    Found existing installation: charset-normalizer 2.0.4
    Uninstalling charset-normalizer-2.0.4:
      Successfully uninstalled charset-normalizer-2.0.4
  Attempting uninstall: certifi
    Found existing installation: certifi 2021.5.30
    Uninstalling certifi-2021.5.30:
      Successfully uninstalled certifi-2021.5.30
  Attempting uninstall: blis
    Found existing installation: blis 0.7.4
    Uninstalling blis-0.7.4:
      Successfully uninstalled blis-0.7.4
  Attempting uninstall: thinc
    Found existing installation: thinc 8.0.8
    Uninstalling thinc-8.0.8:
      Successfully uninstalled thinc-8.0.8
  Attempting uninstall: requests
    Found existing installation: requests 2.26.0
    Uninstalling requests-2.26.0:
      Successfully uninstalled requests-2.26.0
  Attempting uninstall: jsonschema
    Found existing installation: jsonschema 2.6.0
    Uninstalling jsonschema-2.6.0:
      Successfully uninstalled jsonschema-2.6.0
  Attempting uninstall: spacy
    Found existing installation: spacy 3.1.1
    Uninstalling spacy-3.1.1:
      Successfully uninstalled spacy-3.1.1
ERROR: pip's dependency resolver does not currently take into account all the packages that are installed. This behaviour is the source of the following dependency conflicts.
tensorflow 2.5.0 requires numpy~=1.19.2, but you have numpy 1.21.1 which is incompatible.
tensorflow 2.5.0 requires six~=1.15.0, but you have six 1.16.0 which is incompatible.
tensorflow 2.5.0 requires typing-extensions~=3.7.4, but you have typing-extensions 3.10.0.0 which is incompatible.
nbclient 0.5.3 requires jupyter-client>=6.1.5, but you have jupyter-client 5.3.5 which is incompatible.
google-colab 1.0.0 requires requests~=2.23.0, but you have requests 2.26.0 which is incompatible.
google-colab 1.0.0 requires six~=1.15.0, but you have six 1.16.0 which is incompatible.
en-core-web-sm 2.2.5 requires spacy>=2.2.2, but you have spacy 2.1.3 which is incompatible.
datascience 0.10.6 requires folium==0.2.1, but you have folium 0.8.3 which is incompatible.
albumentations 0.1.12 requires imgaug<0.2.7,>=0.2.5, but you have imgaug 0.2.9 which is incompatible.
Successfully installed blis-0.2.4 certifi-2021.5.30 charset-normalizer-2.0.4 cymem-2.0.5 idna-3.2 jsonschema-2.6.0 murmurhash-1.0.5 numpy-1.21.1 plac-0.9.6 preshed-2.0.1 requests-2.26.0 spacy-2.1.3 srsly-1.0.5 thinc-7.0.8 tqdm-4.62.0 urllib3-1.26.6 wasabi-0.8.2
Requirement already satisfied: nltk in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (3.2.5)
Collecting nltk
  Downloading nltk-3.6.2-py3-none-any.whl (1.5 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 1.5 MB 7.8 MB/s 
Requirement already satisfied: click in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nltk) (7.1.2)
Requirement already satisfied: tqdm in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nltk) (4.62.0)
Requirement already satisfied: regex in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nltk) (2021.8.3)
Requirement already satisfied: joblib in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nltk) (1.0.1)
Installing collected packages: nltk
  Attempting uninstall: nltk
    Found existing installation: nltk 3.2.5
    Uninstalling nltk-3.2.5:
      Successfully uninstalled nltk-3.2.5
Successfully installed nltk-3.6.2
Collecting pywsd
  Downloading pywsd-1.2.4.tar.gz (26.8 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 26.8 MB 22 kB/s 
Requirement already satisfied: nltk in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pywsd) (3.6.2)
Requirement already satisfied: numpy in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pywsd) (1.21.1)
Requirement already satisfied: pandas in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pywsd) (1.1.5)
Collecting wn
  Downloading wn-0.8.0-py3-none-any.whl (66 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 66 kB 4.6 MB/s 
Requirement already satisfied: six in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pywsd) (1.16.0)
Requirement already satisfied: regex in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nltk->pywsd) (2021.8.3)
Requirement already satisfied: click in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nltk->pywsd) (7.1.2)
Requirement already satisfied: tqdm in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nltk->pywsd) (4.62.0)
Requirement already satisfied: joblib in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nltk->pywsd) (1.0.1)
Requirement already satisfied: pytz>=2017.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pandas->pywsd) (2018.9)
Requirement already satisfied: python-dateutil>=2.7.3 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from pandas->pywsd) (2.8.1)
Requirement already satisfied: requests~=2.25 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from wn->pywsd) (2.26.0)
Requirement already satisfied: toml~=0.10 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from wn->pywsd) (0.10.2)
Requirement already satisfied: charset-normalizer~=2.0.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests~=2.25->wn->pywsd) (2.0.4)
Requirement already satisfied: urllib3<1.27,>=1.21.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests~=2.25->wn->pywsd) (1.26.6)
Requirement already satisfied: idna<4,>=2.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests~=2.25->wn->pywsd) (3.2)
Requirement already satisfied: certifi>=2017.4.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests~=2.25->wn->pywsd) (2021.5.30)
Building wheels for collected packages: pywsd
  Building wheel for pywsd (setup.py) ... done
  Created wheel for pywsd: filename=pywsd-1.2.4-py3-none-any.whl size=26940437 sha256=1f7aa0861259d3d4979bbe315a8e84a7f355933916b469a254dcf92439613f7b
  Stored in directory: /root/.cache/pip/wheels/56/67/c0/6e6fa8456d1374b393328368316c3b33844cb4043bd225bc66
Successfully built pywsd
Installing collected packages: wn, pywsd
Successfully installed pywsd-1.2.4 wn-0.8.0
[nltk_data] Downloading package stopwords to /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]   Unzipping corpora/stopwords.zip.
[nltk_data] Downloading collection 'popular'
[nltk_data]    | 
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package cmudict to /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping corpora/cmudict.zip.
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package gazetteers to /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping corpora/gazetteers.zip.
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package genesis to /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping corpora/genesis.zip.
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package gutenberg to /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping corpora/gutenberg.zip.
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package inaugural to /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping corpora/inaugural.zip.
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package movie_reviews to
[nltk_data]    |     /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping corpora/movie_reviews.zip.
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package names to /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping corpora/names.zip.
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package shakespeare to /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping corpora/shakespeare.zip.
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package stopwords to /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Package stopwords is already up-to-date!
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package treebank to /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping corpora/treebank.zip.
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package twitter_samples to
[nltk_data]    |     /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping corpora/twitter_samples.zip.
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package omw to /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping corpora/omw.zip.
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package wordnet to /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping corpora/wordnet.zip.
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package wordnet_ic to /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping corpora/wordnet_ic.zip.
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package words to /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping corpora/words.zip.
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package maxent_ne_chunker to
[nltk_data]    |     /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping chunkers/maxent_ne_chunker.zip.
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package punkt to /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping tokenizers/punkt.zip.
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package snowball_data to
[nltk_data]    |     /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    | Downloading package averaged_perceptron_tagger to
[nltk_data]    |     /root/nltk_data...
[nltk_data]    |   Unzipping taggers/averaged_perceptron_tagger.zip.
[nltk_data]    | 
[nltk_data]  Done downloading collection popular
Requirement already satisfied: sentencepiece in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (0.1.96)
ERROR: Could not find a version that satisfies the requirement BigBirdTokenizer (from versions: none)
ERROR: No matching distribution found for BigBirdTokenizer
Collecting sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1
  Downloading sentence-transformers-0.2.5.1.tar.gz (52 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 52 kB 880 kB/s 
Collecting transformers==2.3.0
  Downloading transformers-2.3.0-py3-none-any.whl (447 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 447 kB 13.2 MB/s 
Requirement already satisfied: tqdm in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (4.62.0)
Requirement already satisfied: torch>=1.0.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (1.9.0+cu102)
Requirement already satisfied: numpy in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (1.21.1)
Requirement already satisfied: scikit-learn in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (0.24.2)
Requirement already satisfied: scipy in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (1.7.1)
Requirement already satisfied: nltk in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (3.6.2)
Collecting boto3
  Downloading boto3-1.18.13-py3-none-any.whl (131 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 131 kB 13.0 MB/s 
Requirement already satisfied: sentencepiece in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers==2.3.0->sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (0.1.96)
Requirement already satisfied: sacremoses in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers==2.3.0->sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (0.0.45)
Requirement already satisfied: regex!=2019.12.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers==2.3.0->sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (2021.8.3)
Requirement already satisfied: requests in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers==2.3.0->sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (2.26.0)
Requirement already satisfied: typing-extensions in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from torch>=1.0.1->sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (3.10.0.0)
Collecting s3transfer<0.6.0,>=0.5.0
  Downloading s3transfer-0.5.0-py3-none-any.whl (79 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 79 kB 6.8 MB/s 
Collecting jmespath<1.0.0,>=0.7.1
  Downloading jmespath-0.10.0-py2.py3-none-any.whl (24 kB)
Collecting botocore<1.22.0,>=1.21.13
  Downloading botocore-1.21.13-py3-none-any.whl (7.8 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 7.8 MB 15.5 MB/s 
Requirement already satisfied: python-dateutil<3.0.0,>=2.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from botocore<1.22.0,>=1.21.13->boto3->transformers==2.3.0->sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (2.8.1)
Requirement already satisfied: urllib3<1.27,>=1.25.4 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from botocore<1.22.0,>=1.21.13->boto3->transformers==2.3.0->sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (1.26.6)
Requirement already satisfied: six>=1.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from python-dateutil<3.0.0,>=2.1->botocore<1.22.0,>=1.21.13->boto3->transformers==2.3.0->sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (1.16.0)
Requirement already satisfied: joblib in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nltk->sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (1.0.1)
Requirement already satisfied: click in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nltk->sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (7.1.2)
Requirement already satisfied: idna<4,>=2.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers==2.3.0->sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (3.2)
Requirement already satisfied: charset-normalizer~=2.0.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers==2.3.0->sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (2.0.4)
Requirement already satisfied: certifi>=2017.4.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers==2.3.0->sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (2021.5.30)
Requirement already satisfied: threadpoolctl>=2.0.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from scikit-learn->sentence-transformers==0.2.5.1) (2.2.0)
Building wheels for collected packages: sentence-transformers
  Building wheel for sentence-transformers (setup.py) ... done
  Created wheel for sentence-transformers: filename=sentence_transformers-0.2.5.1-py3-none-any.whl size=67078 sha256=29bfc69c84016e09dad29ffb0a4fe9d9d908dd01f78131e27febb8fb51d33db2
  Stored in directory: /root/.cache/pip/wheels/f0/ed/8b/c4dd6951bf8a5e7b8e97badea87af00b33d4d3c6340e113b83
Successfully built sentence-transformers
Installing collected packages: jmespath, botocore, s3transfer, boto3, transformers, sentence-transformers
  Attempting uninstall: transformers
    Found existing installation: transformers 4.9.1
    Uninstalling transformers-4.9.1:
      Successfully uninstalled transformers-4.9.1
Successfully installed boto3-1.18.13 botocore-1.21.13 jmespath-0.10.0 s3transfer-0.5.0 sentence-transformers-0.2.5.1 transformers-2.3.0
Collecting transformers==2.6.0
  Downloading transformers-2.6.0-py3-none-any.whl (540 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 540 kB 8.3 MB/s 
Requirement already satisfied: boto3 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers==2.6.0) (1.18.13)
Requirement already satisfied: numpy in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers==2.6.0) (1.21.1)
Collecting tokenizers==0.5.2
  Downloading tokenizers-0.5.2-cp37-cp37m-manylinux1_x86_64.whl (5.6 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 5.6 MB 11.2 MB/s 
Requirement already satisfied: sentencepiece in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers==2.6.0) (0.1.96)
Requirement already satisfied: tqdm>=4.27 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers==2.6.0) (4.62.0)
Requirement already satisfied: filelock in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers==2.6.0) (3.0.12)
Requirement already satisfied: regex!=2019.12.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers==2.6.0) (2021.8.3)
Requirement already satisfied: requests in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers==2.6.0) (2.26.0)
Requirement already satisfied: sacremoses in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers==2.6.0) (0.0.45)
Requirement already satisfied: s3transfer<0.6.0,>=0.5.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from boto3->transformers==2.6.0) (0.5.0)
Requirement already satisfied: jmespath<1.0.0,>=0.7.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from boto3->transformers==2.6.0) (0.10.0)
Requirement already satisfied: botocore<1.22.0,>=1.21.13 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from boto3->transformers==2.6.0) (1.21.13)
Requirement already satisfied: python-dateutil<3.0.0,>=2.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from botocore<1.22.0,>=1.21.13->boto3->transformers==2.6.0) (2.8.1)
Requirement already satisfied: urllib3<1.27,>=1.25.4 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from botocore<1.22.0,>=1.21.13->boto3->transformers==2.6.0) (1.26.6)
Requirement already satisfied: six>=1.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from python-dateutil<3.0.0,>=2.1->botocore<1.22.0,>=1.21.13->boto3->transformers==2.6.0) (1.16.0)
Requirement already satisfied: charset-normalizer~=2.0.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers==2.6.0) (2.0.4)
Requirement already satisfied: certifi>=2017.4.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers==2.6.0) (2021.5.30)
Requirement already satisfied: idna<4,>=2.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers==2.6.0) (3.2)
Requirement already satisfied: joblib in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sacremoses->transformers==2.6.0) (1.0.1)
Requirement already satisfied: click in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sacremoses->transformers==2.6.0) (7.1.2)
Installing collected packages: tokenizers, transformers
  Attempting uninstall: tokenizers
    Found existing installation: tokenizers 0.10.3
    Uninstalling tokenizers-0.10.3:
      Successfully uninstalled tokenizers-0.10.3
  Attempting uninstall: transformers
    Found existing installation: transformers 2.3.0
    Uninstalling transformers-2.3.0:
      Successfully uninstalled transformers-2.3.0
ERROR: pip's dependency resolver does not currently take into account all the packages that are installed. This behaviour is the source of the following dependency conflicts.
sentence-transformers 0.2.5.1 requires transformers==2.3.0, but you have transformers 2.6.0 which is incompatible.
Successfully installed tokenizers-0.5.2 transformers-2.6.0
from summarizer import Summarizer
model = Summarizer()
result = model(text, min_length=10)
summary = "".join(result)
print(summary)
Downloading:   0%|          | 0.00/434 [00:00<?, ?B/s]
Downloading:   0%|          | 0.00/1.34G [00:00<?, ?B/s]
Downloading:   0%|          | 0.00/232k [00:00<?, ?B/s]
29
Nationalism  in  India
As you have seen, modern nationalism in Europe came to be
associated with the formation of nation-states. But the unity
did not emerge without conflict. Nationalism  in  India
Chapter II
Nationalism in India
Fig. 1 – 6 April 1919. It led to a huge increase in defence expenditure which was financed
by war loans and increasing taxes: customs duties were raised and
income tax introduced. This was accompanied by an
influenza epidemic. People hoped that their hardships would end after the war was
over. 2 – Indian workers in South
Africa march through Volksrust, 6
November 1913. Mahatma Gandhi was leading the
workers from Newcastle to
Transvaal. When the marchers were
stopped and Gandhiji arrested,
thousands of more workers joined
the satyagraha against racist laws
that denied rights  to non-whites. By this struggle, truth was bound to ultimately
triumph. Then in 1917,  he organised a satyagraha
to support the peasants of the Kheda district of Gujarat. Mahatma Gandhi wanted non-violent civil disobedience against
such unjust laws, which would start with a hartal on 6 April. Rallies were organised in various cities, workers went on strike in
railway workshops, and shops closed down. This power is not passive
resistance; indeed it calls for intense activity. They have made the religion of non-violence their
own ...’
Source
Source A
Read the text carefully. As the news of Jallianwalla Bagh spread, crowds took to the streets
in many north Indian towns. A young generation of Muslim
leaders like the brothers Muhammad Ali and Shaukat Ali, began
discussing with Mahatma Gandhi about the possibility of a united
mass action on the issue. It should begin
with the surrender of titles that the government awarded, and a
boycott of civil services, army, police, courts and legislative councils,
schools, and foreign goods. Through the summer of 1920 Mahatma Gandhi and Shaukat Ali
toured extensively, mobilising popular support for the movement. Many within the Congress were, however, concerned about the
proposals. In the months between September
and December there was an intense tussle within the Congress. 2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
34
2  Differing Strands within the Movement
The Non-Cooperation-Khilafat Movement began in January 1921. 2.1 The Movement in the Towns
The movement started with middle-class participation in the cities. In many places merchants and traders
refused to trade in foreign goods or finance foreign trade. Khadi cloth was often more expensive than mass-
produced mill cloth and poor people could not afford to buy it. These were
slow to come up. It drew into its fold the struggles of peasants and tribals
New words
Picket – A form of demonstration or protest
by which people block the entrance to a shop,
factory or office
The year is 1921. You are a student in a
government-controlled school. As tenants they had no security of tenure, being regularly evicted so
that they could acquire no right over the leased land. New words
Begar – Labour that villagers were forced to
contribute without any payment
If you were a peasant in Uttar Pradesh in 1920,
how would you have responded to Gandhiji’s
call for Swaraj? Give reasons for your response. Agitated and angry, Nehru addressed the peasants who gathered
around him. For a moment my blood was up, non-violence was almost forgotten – but for a moment only. In the Gudem Hills of Andhra
Pradesh, for instance, a militant guerrilla movement spread in
the early 1920s –  not a form of struggle that the Congress could
approve. The person who came
to lead them was an interesting figure. Captivated by Raju, the rebels proclaimed that
he was an incarnation of God. The Gudem rebels attacked
police stations, attempted to kill British officials and carried on
guerrilla warfare for achieving swaraj. 2.3 Swaraj in the Plantations
Workers too had their own understanding of Mahatma Gandhi
and the notion of swaraj. They believed that Gandhi Raj was
coming and everyone would be given land in their own villages. They, however, never reached their destination. At Chauri Chaura in Gorakhpur, a peaceful demonstration in a bazaar turned into a
violent clash with the police. The first was
the effect of the worldwide economic depression. As the demand
for agricultural goods fell and exports declined, peasants found it
difficult to sell their harvests and pay their revenue. So Mahatma Gandhi
had to find a way to relate this abstract idea of freedom to more
concrete issues of everyday life. 3.1 The Salt March and the Civil Disobedience Movement
Mahatma Gandhi found in salt a powerful symbol that could unite
the nation. On 31 January 1930, he sent a letter to Viceroy Irwin
stating eleven demands. Some of these were of general interest;
others were specific demands of different classes, from industrialists
to peasants. We believe
also that if any government deprives a people of
these rights and oppresses them, the people
have a further right to alter it or to abolish it. On the way
they were joined by thousands. Back in India, he discovered that the
government had begun a new cycle of repression. Ghaffar Khan
and Jawaharlal Nehru were both in jail, the Congress had been
declared illegal, and a series of measures had been imposed to prevent
meetings, demonstrations and boycotts. Why did they join the movement? Being producers of commercial crops, they were very hard hit by
the trade depression and falling prices. The poorer peasantry were not just interested in the lowering of the
revenue demand. Many of them were small tenants cultivating land
they had rented from landlords. They joined a variety of radical movements, often led by Socialists
and Communists. So the relationship between the
poor peasants and the Congress remained uncertain. During
his trial, Bhagat Singh stated that he did not
wish to glorify ‘the cult of the bomb and pistol’
but wanted a revolution in society:
‘Revolution is the inalienable right of mankind. We are
content. Inquilab Zindabad!’ How did they relate to the Civil
Disobedience Movement? Led by
prominent industrialists like Purshottamdas Thakurdas and
G. D. Birla, the industrialists attacked colonial control over the Indian
economy, and supported the Civil Disobedience Movement when
it was first launched. They gave financial assistance and refused to
buy or sell imported goods. Most businessmen came to see swaraj
as a time when colonial restrictions on business would no longer
exist and trade and industry would flourish without constraints. But
after the failure of the Round Table Conference, business groups
were no longer uniformly enthusiastic. There were strikes by railway workers in
1930 and dockworkers in 1932. April 1919
Gandhian hartal against Rowlatt Act; Jallianwala
Bagh massacre. May 1924
Alluri Sitarama Raju arrested ending a two-year
armed tribal struggle. 1930
Ambedkar establishes Depressed Classes
Association. December 1931
Second Round Table Conference. 1932
Civil Disobedience re-launched. 2020-21
43
Nationalism  in  India
picketed foreign cloth and liquor shops. Discuss
Fig. 9 – Women join
nationalist processions. 2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
44
or the children of God, organised satyagraha to secure them entry
into temples, and access to public wells, tanks, roads and schools. The dalit
movement, however, continued to be apprehensive of the Congress-
led national movement. Muhammad Ali
Fig. 2020-21
45
Nationalism  in  India
Jinnah, one of the leaders of the Muslim League, was willing to give
up the demand for separate electorates, if Muslims were assured
reserved seats in the Central Assembly and representation in
proportion to population in the Muslim-dominated provinces (Bengal
and Punjab). India is a land of racial and religious variety. Source D
Source
Read the Source D carefully. History
and fiction, folklore and songs, popular prints and symbols, all played
a part in the making of nationalism. The mala
in one hand emphasises her ascetic quality. Abanindranath Tagore, like Ravi Varma before
him, tried to develop a style of painting that
could be seen as truly Indian. The idea of sacrifice for the mother was
powerful within popular imagination. By
1921, Gandhiji had designed the Swaraj flag. This glorious time, in their view, was
followed by a history of decline, when India was colonised. 14a – Bharat Mata. This figure of Bharat Mata is a contrast to the
one painted by Abanindranath Tagore. Look at Figs. Do you think these
images will appeal to all castes and communities? In other words, what was emerging was a nation with many
voices wanting freedom from colonial rule. This
led Gandhiji to launch a movement calling for complete withdrawal of the British from India. Then choose any three and write about their hopes and struggles to show why they
joined the movement. Discuss
Write in brief
1. c) Why Indians were outraged by the Rowlatt Act.
!pip install rouge
from rouge import Rouge
r = Rouge()
r.get_scores(summary,text)
Collecting rouge
  Downloading rouge-1.0.1-py3-none-any.whl (13 kB)
Requirement already satisfied: six in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from rouge) (1.16.0)
Installing collected packages: rouge
Successfully installed rouge-1.0.1
[{'rouge-1': {'f': 0.4426328467948366, 'p': 1.0, 'r': 0.28421868941450174},
  'rouge-2': {'f': 0.31130798297596535,
   'p': 0.945440956651719,
   'r': 0.18633082928266312},
  'rouge-l': {'f': 0.4426328467948366, 'p': 1.0, 'r': 0.28421868941450174}}]
GPT-2
#using the gpt-2 model for summarization
from summarizer import Summarizer,TransformerSummarizer
GPT2_model = TransformerSummarizer(transformer_type="GPT2",transformer_model_key="gpt2-medium")
Downloading:   0%|          | 0.00/718 [00:00<?, ?B/s]
Downloading:   0%|          | 0.00/1.52G [00:00<?, ?B/s]
Downloading:   0%|          | 0.00/1.04M [00:00<?, ?B/s]
Downloading:   0%|          | 0.00/456k [00:00<?, ?B/s]
full = ''.join(GPT2_model(text, min_length=10))
print(full)
29
Nationalism  in  India
As you have seen, modern nationalism in Europe came to be
associated with the formation of nation-states. People began discovering their unity in the process of their struggle
with colonialism. But the unity
did not emerge without conflict. 1 – 6 April 1919. Mass processions on
the streets became a
common feature during
the national movement. What implications did they have? Through the war years prices increased –
doubling between 1913 and 1918 –  leading to extreme hardship
for the common people. But that did not happen. 1.1 The Idea of Satyagraha
Mahatma Gandhi returned to India in January 1915. Mahatma Gandhi believed that this dharma of non-violence
could unite all Indians. After arriving in India, Mahatma Gandhi successfully organised
satyagraha movements in various places. In 1917 he travelled to
Champaran in  Bihar to inspire the peasants to struggle against the
oppressive plantation system. Affected
by crop failure and a plague epidemic, the peasants of Kheda could
not pay the revenue, and were demanding that revenue collection be
relaxed. 1.2 The Rowlatt Act
Emboldened with this success, Gandhiji in 1919 decided to launch a
nationwide satyagraha against the proposed Rowlatt Act (1919). Alarmed by the popular
upsurge, and scared that lines of communication such as the railways
and telegraph would be disrupted, the British administration decided
to clamp down on nationalists. On 10 April, the police in Amritsar fired upon a peaceful procession,
provoking widespread attacks on banks, post offices and railway
stations. A satyagrahi
does not inflict pain on the adversary; he does
not seek his destruction … In the use of
satyagraha, there is no ill-will whatever. Truth is the very
substance of the soul. In it burns the flame of love. … His object,
as he declared later, was to ‘produce a moral effect’, to create in the
minds of satyagrahis a feeling of terror and awe. As the news of Jallianwalla Bagh spread, crowds took to the streets
in many north Indian towns. There were strikes, clashes with the
police and attacks on government buildings. The First World War had
ended with the defeat of Ottoman Turkey. At the
Calcutta session of the Congress in September 1920, he convinced
other leaders of the need to start a non-cooperation movement in
support of Khilafat as well as for swaraj. How did
different social groups conceive of the idea of Non-Cooperation? 2020-21
India and the Contemporary World
34
2  Differing Strands within the Movement
The Non-Cooperation-Khilafat Movement began in January 1921. 2.1 The Movement in the Towns
The movement started with middle-class participation in the cities. Thousands of students left government-controlled schools and
colleges, headmasters and teachers resigned, and lawyers gave up
their legal practices. In many places merchants and traders
refused to trade in foreign goods or finance foreign trade. These were
slow to come up. By October, the
Oudh Kisan Sabha was set up headed by Jawaharlal Nehru, Baba
Ramchandra and a few others. Activity
On 6 January 1921, the police in United Provinces fired at peasants near Rae Bareli. I do not know how they felt but I know what
my feelings were. For a moment my blood was up, non-violence was almost forgotten – but for a moment only. The
thought of the great leader, who by God’s goodness has been sent to lead us to victory, came to me, and I saw the
kisans seated and standing near me, less excited, more peaceful than I was – and the moment of weakness passed, I
spoke to them in all humility on non-violence – I needed the lesson more than they – and they heeded me and
peacefully dispersed.’ Here, as in other forest regions, the colonial government
had closed large forest areas, preventing people from entering
the forests to graze their cattle, or to collect fuelwood and fruits. This enraged the hill people. Captivated by Raju, the rebels proclaimed that
he was an incarnation of God. 2.3 Swaraj in the Plantations
Workers too had their own understanding of Mahatma Gandhi
and the notion of swaraj. When they heard of the Non-Cooperation
Movement, thousands of workers defied the authorities, left the
plantations and headed home. They, however, never reached their destination. Activity
2020-21
37
Nationalism  in  India
The visions of these movements were not defined by the Congress
programme. 5 – Chauri Chaura, 1922. He felt the movement was turning
violent in many places and satyagrahis needed to be properly trained
before they would be ready for mass struggles. Set up
in response to the nationalist movement, the
commission was to look into the functioning of
the constitutional system in India and suggest
changes. They were
all British. 6 – Meeting of Congress leaders  at Allahabad, 1931. He succumbed to injuries
that were inflicted on him during the
demonstration. Salt was
something consumed by the rich and the poor alike, and it was one
of the most essential items of food. The volunteers walked for 24 days,
about 10 miles a day. We believe
also that if any government deprives a people of
these rights and oppresses them, the people
have a further right to alter it or to abolish it. As the movement spread, foreign cloth
was boycotted, and liquor shops were picketed. In such a situation, Mahatma Gandhi once again decided to call off
the movement and entered into a pact with Irwin on 5 March 1931. Back in India, he discovered that the
government had begun a new cycle of repression. Why did they join the movement? What were their ideals? What did swaraj mean to them? As the Depression continued and
cash incomes dwindled, the small tenants found it difficult to pay
their rent. They wanted the unpaid rent to the landlord to be remitted. Apprehensive of raising issues that might upset
the rich peasants and landlords, the Congress was unwilling to support
‘no rent’ campaigns in most places. So the relationship between the
poor peasants and the Congress remained uncertain. ‘To the altar of this revolution we have
brought our youth as incense’
Many nationalists thought that the struggle
against the British could not be won through
non-violence. How did they relate to the Civil
Disobedience Movement? Keen on expanding their business, they
now reacted against colonial policies that restricted business activities. But
after the failure of the Round Table Conference, business groups
were no longer uniformly enthusiastic. In 1930 thousands of workers in
Chotanagpur tin mines wore Gandhi caps and participated in protest
rallies and boycott campaigns. January 1921
Non-Cooperation and Khilafat movement
launched. March 1930
Gandhiji begins Civil Disobedience Movement by
breaking salt law at Dandi. December 1931
Second Round Table Conference. Many went to jail. In urban
areas these women were from high-caste families; in rural areas
they came from rich peasant households. It was keen only on their
symbolic presence. Discuss
Fig. 9 – Women join
nationalist processions. He himself cleaned toilets to dignify the work of the bhangi (the
sweepers), and persuaded upper castes to change their heart and
give up ‘the sin of untouchability’. They began organising themselves, demanding reserved seats in
educational institutions, and a separate electorate that would choose
dalit members for legislative councils. Political empowerment, they
believed, would resolve the problems of their social disabilities. The dalit
movement, however, continued to be apprehensive of the Congress-
led national movement. Some of the Muslim political organisations in India were also
lukewarm in their response to the Civil Disobedience Movement. Nay, it is my duty according to the teachings of the Quran, even to
defend their places of worship, if need be. The Muslim demand for the creation of a Muslim India
within India is, therefore, perfectly justified…
‘The Hindu thinks that separate electorates are contrary to the spirit of true nationalism, because he understands the
word “nation” to mean a kind of universal amalgamation in which no communal entity ought to retain its private individuality. India is a land of racial and religious variety. Can you define communalism in a
different way? This sense of collective belonging came partly through the experience
of united struggles. But there were also a variety of cultural processes
through which nationalism captured people’s imagination. The sacred institutions of different faiths
(temple, church, masjid) frame the central figure. In the
1870s he wrote ‘Vande Mataram’ as a hymn to the motherland. Moved by the Swadeshi
movement, Abanindranath Tagore painted his famous image of
Bharat Mata (see Fig. In Bengal, Rabindranath Tagore himself began collecting
ballads, nursery rhymes and myths, and led the movement for folk
Fig. The mala
in one hand emphasises her ascetic quality. By the end of the nineteenth century
many Indians began feeling that to instill a sense of pride in the
nation, Indian history had to be thought about differently. Here she
is shown with a trishul, standing  beside a lion
and an elephant – both symbols of power and
authority. Look at Figs. Explain your views briefly. In other words, what was emerging was a nation with many
voices wanting freedom from colonial rule. Compare the images of Bharat Mata in this chapter with the image of Germania
in Chapter 1. Write in brief
Project
2020-21
r = Rouge()
r.get_scores(full,text)
[{'rouge-1': {'f': 0.4648809488127144, 'p': 1.0, 'r': 0.30283055447848},
  'rouge-2': {'f': 0.32797270669180534,
   'p': 0.9485553206483439,
   'r': 0.19826189424068347},
  'rouge-l': {'f': 0.4648809488127144, 'p': 1.0, 'r': 0.30283055447848}}]
Keyword Extraction
Keybert
!pip install torch
!pip install keybert
Requirement already satisfied: torch in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (1.9.0+cu102)
Requirement already satisfied: typing-extensions in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from torch) (3.10.0.0)
Collecting keybert
  Downloading keybert-0.4.0.tar.gz (18 kB)
Collecting sentence-transformers>=0.3.8
  Downloading sentence-transformers-2.0.0.tar.gz (85 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 85 kB 2.8 MB/s 
Requirement already satisfied: scikit-learn>=0.22.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from keybert) (0.24.2)
Requirement already satisfied: numpy>=1.18.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from keybert) (1.21.1)
Collecting rich>=10.4.0
  Downloading rich-10.6.0-py3-none-any.whl (208 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 208 kB 11.3 MB/s 
Requirement already satisfied: typing-extensions<4.0.0,>=3.7.4 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from rich>=10.4.0->keybert) (3.10.0.0)
Collecting commonmark<0.10.0,>=0.9.0
  Downloading commonmark-0.9.1-py2.py3-none-any.whl (51 kB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 51 kB 6.2 MB/s 
Collecting colorama<0.5.0,>=0.4.0
  Downloading colorama-0.4.4-py2.py3-none-any.whl (16 kB)
Requirement already satisfied: pygments<3.0.0,>=2.6.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from rich>=10.4.0->keybert) (2.6.1)
Requirement already satisfied: joblib>=0.11 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from scikit-learn>=0.22.2->keybert) (1.0.1)
Requirement already satisfied: scipy>=0.19.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from scikit-learn>=0.22.2->keybert) (1.7.1)
Requirement already satisfied: threadpoolctl>=2.0.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from scikit-learn>=0.22.2->keybert) (2.2.0)
Collecting transformers<5.0.0,>=4.6.0
  Using cached transformers-4.9.1-py3-none-any.whl (2.6 MB)
Requirement already satisfied: tqdm in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (4.62.0)
Requirement already satisfied: torch>=1.6.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (1.9.0+cu102)
Requirement already satisfied: torchvision in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (0.10.0+cu102)
Requirement already satisfied: nltk in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (3.6.2)
Requirement already satisfied: sentencepiece in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (0.1.96)
Requirement already satisfied: huggingface-hub in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (0.0.12)
Requirement already satisfied: pyyaml>=5.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers<5.0.0,>=4.6.0->sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (5.4.1)
Requirement already satisfied: requests in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers<5.0.0,>=4.6.0->sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (2.26.0)
Collecting tokenizers<0.11,>=0.10.1
  Using cached tokenizers-0.10.3-cp37-cp37m-manylinux_2_5_x86_64.manylinux1_x86_64.manylinux_2_12_x86_64.manylinux2010_x86_64.whl (3.3 MB)
Requirement already satisfied: sacremoses in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers<5.0.0,>=4.6.0->sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (0.0.45)
Requirement already satisfied: regex!=2019.12.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers<5.0.0,>=4.6.0->sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (2021.8.3)
Requirement already satisfied: importlib-metadata in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers<5.0.0,>=4.6.0->sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (4.6.3)
Requirement already satisfied: filelock in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers<5.0.0,>=4.6.0->sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (3.0.12)
Requirement already satisfied: packaging in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from transformers<5.0.0,>=4.6.0->sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (21.0)
Requirement already satisfied: pyparsing>=2.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from packaging->transformers<5.0.0,>=4.6.0->sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (2.4.7)
Requirement already satisfied: zipp>=0.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from importlib-metadata->transformers<5.0.0,>=4.6.0->sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (3.5.0)
Requirement already satisfied: click in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from nltk->sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (7.1.2)
Requirement already satisfied: charset-normalizer~=2.0.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers<5.0.0,>=4.6.0->sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (2.0.4)
Requirement already satisfied: idna<4,>=2.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers<5.0.0,>=4.6.0->sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (3.2)
Requirement already satisfied: certifi>=2017.4.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers<5.0.0,>=4.6.0->sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (2021.5.30)
Requirement already satisfied: urllib3<1.27,>=1.21.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests->transformers<5.0.0,>=4.6.0->sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (1.26.6)
Requirement already satisfied: six in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from sacremoses->transformers<5.0.0,>=4.6.0->sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (1.16.0)
Requirement already satisfied: pillow>=5.3.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from torchvision->sentence-transformers>=0.3.8->keybert) (7.1.2)
Building wheels for collected packages: keybert, sentence-transformers
  Building wheel for keybert (setup.py) ... done
  Created wheel for keybert: filename=keybert-0.4.0-py3-none-any.whl size=20358 sha256=e225e86e23643ff79caabf4d68e78fc2500a67c1d1d053bd8fb84a4b45eea3cd
  Stored in directory: /root/.cache/pip/wheels/fe/e1/7f/8ee72e851e92320fba5c68d9e6e28d227671876429bc80f420
  Building wheel for sentence-transformers (setup.py) ... done
  Created wheel for sentence-transformers: filename=sentence_transformers-2.0.0-py3-none-any.whl size=126709 sha256=a02e89b05834f98a12484d5680e3cc7bda776bb18b01cd9e113eb5ec107df66f
  Stored in directory: /root/.cache/pip/wheels/d1/c1/0f/faafd427f705c4b012274ba60d9a91d75830306811e1355293
Successfully built keybert sentence-transformers
Installing collected packages: tokenizers, transformers, commonmark, colorama, sentence-transformers, rich, keybert
  Attempting uninstall: tokenizers
    Found existing installation: tokenizers 0.5.2
    Uninstalling tokenizers-0.5.2:
      Successfully uninstalled tokenizers-0.5.2
  Attempting uninstall: transformers
    Found existing installation: transformers 2.6.0
    Uninstalling transformers-2.6.0:
      Successfully uninstalled transformers-2.6.0
  Attempting uninstall: sentence-transformers
    Found existing installation: sentence-transformers 0.2.5.1
    Uninstalling sentence-transformers-0.2.5.1:
      Successfully uninstalled sentence-transformers-0.2.5.1
Successfully installed colorama-0.4.4 commonmark-0.9.1 keybert-0.4.0 rich-10.6.0 sentence-transformers-2.0.0 tokenizers-0.10.3 transformers-4.9.1
from keybert import KeyBERT
model = KeyBERT('distilbert-base-nli-mean-tokens')
keywords1 = model.extract_keywords(text,keyphrase_ngram_range=(1,1),top_n=5)
print(keywords1)
list1=[]
for i in keywords1:
  list1.append(i[0])
print(list1)
[('rallies', 0.3412), ('nationalism', 0.3223), ('celebrations', 0.2957), ('mobilising', 0.2955), ('delhi', 0.2847)]
['rallies', 'nationalism', 'celebrations', 'mobilising', 'delhi']
word2vec
import pandas as pd
pd.options.mode.chained_assignment = None 
import numpy as np
import re
import nltk

from gensim.models import word2vec

from sklearn.manifold import TSNE
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
model1 = word2vec.Word2Vec(keywords(text), size=100, window=20, min_count=200, workers=4)
def tsne_plot(model):
    "Creates and TSNE model and plots it"
    labels = []
    tokens = []

    for word in model.wv.vocab:
        tokens.append(model[word])
        labels.append(word)
    
    tsne_model = TSNE(perplexity=40, n_components=2, init='pca', n_iter=2500, random_state=23)
    new_values = tsne_model.fit_transform(tokens)

    x = []
    y = []
    for value in new_values:
        x.append(value[0])
        y.append(value[1])
        
    plt.figure(figsize=(16, 16)) 
    for i in range(len(x)):
        plt.scatter(x[i],y[i])
        plt.annotate(labels[i],
                     xy=(x[i], y[i]),
                     xytext=(5, 2),
                     textcoords='offset points',
                     ha='right',
                     va='bottom')
    plt.show()
tsne_plot(model1)
/usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages/ipykernel_launcher.py:7: DeprecationWarning: Call to deprecated `__getitem__` (Method will be removed in 4.0.0, use self.wv.__getitem__() instead).
  import sys


Spacy
!pip install spacy
import spacy
nlp = spacy.load("en_core_web_sm")
doc=nlp(text)
print(doc.ents)
Requirement already satisfied: spacy in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (2.1.3)
Requirement already satisfied: plac<1.0.0,>=0.9.6 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (0.9.6)
Requirement already satisfied: murmurhash<1.1.0,>=0.28.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (1.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: wasabi<1.1.0,>=0.2.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (0.8.2)
Requirement already satisfied: numpy>=1.15.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (1.21.1)
Requirement already satisfied: cymem<2.1.0,>=2.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (2.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: preshed<2.1.0,>=2.0.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (2.0.1)
Requirement already satisfied: blis<0.3.0,>=0.2.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (0.2.4)
Requirement already satisfied: requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (2.26.0)
Requirement already satisfied: thinc<7.1.0,>=7.0.2 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (7.0.8)
Requirement already satisfied: srsly<1.1.0,>=0.0.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (1.0.5)
Requirement already satisfied: jsonschema<3.0.0,>=2.6.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from spacy) (2.6.0)
Requirement already satisfied: idna<4,>=2.5 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy) (3.2)
Requirement already satisfied: charset-normalizer~=2.0.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy) (2.0.4)
Requirement already satisfied: urllib3<1.27,>=1.21.1 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy) (1.26.6)
Requirement already satisfied: certifi>=2017.4.17 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from requests<3.0.0,>=2.13.0->spacy) (2021.5.30)
Requirement already satisfied: tqdm<5.0.0,>=4.10.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from thinc<7.1.0,>=7.0.2->spacy) (4.62.0)
(Europe, ™, India?In India, Congress, Mahatma Gandhi, one, India, the first decade of the twentieth century, the 1920s, Congress, 1, April 1919.Mass, India, World War, Khilafat, Non-CooperationIn, the years after 1919, Œdoubling, between 1913 and 1918, 1918-19, 1920-21, India, 1921, 12, 13, The Idea of SatyagrahaMahatma Gandhi, India, January 1915, South Africa, Fig, 2, Indian, SouthAfrica, Volksrust, 6November 1913, Mahatma Gandhi, Newcastle, Gandhiji, thousands, Mahatma Gandhi, Indians, India, Mahatma Gandhi, 1917, Bihar, 1917, Kheda, Gujarat, Kheda, 1918, Mahatma Gandhi, Ahmedabad, 1.2, Gandhiji, 1919, Rowlatt Act, 1919, Act, Imperial, Indian, Mahatma Gandhi, 6 April, British, Mahatma Gandhi, Delhi, 10 April, Amritsar, General Dyer, Mahatma Gandhi, Satyagraha‚It, South Africa, Satyagraha, Satyagraha, India, Britain, Europe, British, hundreds of millions, India, ™SourceSource ARead, MahatmaGandhi, Contemporary, April, Jallianwalla Bagh, Onthat day, JallianwallaBagh, ™, annual, Baisakhi, Beingfrom, hundreds, ™, Jallianwalla Bagh, Indian, Gujranwala, Punjab, Pakistan)were, Mahatma Gandhi, Rowlatt, Mahatma Gandhi, India, Hindus, Muslims, One, Khilafat, World War, Ottoman Turkey, Islamic, Khalifa, Bombay, March 1919, Muhammad Ali, Shaukat Ali, Mahatma Gandhi, Gandhiji, Congress, September 1920, Khilafat, Hind Swaraj, 1909, Mahatma Gandhi, British, India, 3, ™, British, Amritsar, Punjab, 1919.33Nationalism  , British, India, a
year, the summer of 1920, Mahatma Gandhi, Shaukat Alitoured, Congress, November 1920, the months, Septemberand, December, Congress, Congress, atNagpur, December 1920, Non-Cooperation, Non-Cooperation?Fig, July 1922.Foreign, India, Contemporary, January 1921.Various, Swaraj, TownsThe, Thousands, Madras, the Justice Party, thenon-Brahmans, one, Brahmans, between 1921 and 1922, 102, 57, Indian, Indian, Khadi, British, Indian, British, CountrysideFrom, the Non-Cooperation Movement, year, 1921, ™, India, Baba Ramchandra Œ, Fiji, ™, June 1920, Aw
, October, Kisan Sabha, Jawaharlal Nehru, BabaRamchandra, a month, over 300, the Non-Cooperation Movement, the following year, Congress, 1921, Gandhiji, Mahatma, Uttar Pradesh, Gandhiji™, Swaraj, ActivityOn, United Provinces, Rae Bareli, Jawaharlal Nehru, Nehru, ™, Ispoke, ™, Sarvapalli Gopal, Jawaharlal Nehru, Vol, 1928, Vallabhbhai Patel, Bardoli, Gujarat, Bardoli Satyagraha, Vallabhbhai Patel, India, India, Contemporary World36Tribal, Mahatma Gandhi, AndhraPradesh, Œ  , Congress, Alluri Sitaram Raju, Raju, Raju, Gandhi, the Non-CooperationMovement, India, Gudem, British, Raju, 1924, 2.3, PlantationsWorkers, Mahatma Gandhiand, Assam, the Inland EmigrationAct, the Non-CooperationMovement, thousands, Gandhi Raj, Movement, British, Indo-China, Chapter 2)?Activity37Nationalism, Congressprogr, Gandhiji™, Swatantra Bharat™, India, Mahatma Gandhi, Congress, 5, Œ Chauri Chaura, Chauri Chaura, Gorakhpur, Mahatma Gandhi, the Non-Cooperation Movement, India, Towards Civil, February 1922, Mahatma Gandhi, theNon-Cooperation Movement, Congress, the Government of India Act, 1919, British, C. R. Das, Motilal Nehru, the Swaraj Partywithin, Congress, Jawaharlal Nehru, Subhas Chandra Bosepressed, two, Indian, the late 1920s, first, 1926, 1930, 1930, Britainconstituted a Statutory Commission, John Simon, India, Indian, British, the Simon Commission, India, Congress, theMuslim League, October 1929, ™, India, Congressleaders, Congress, 6, Congress, Allahabad, 1931.Apart, Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar VallabhbhaiPatel, Jawaharlal Nehru, Subhas
, Chandra Bose, fifth, Lajpat Rai, British, Simon Commission, Subhas Chandra Bose, British, December 1929, Jawaharlal
Nehru, the Lahore Congress, PurnaSwaraj™, India, 26 January
1930, the Independence Day, Mahatma Gandhi, The Salt March, MovementMahatma, Gandhi, 31 January 1930, Viceroy Irwinstating, eleven, Indian, Salt, Mahatma Gandhi, British, Mahatma Gandhi™, 11 March, Irwin, Mahatma Gandhi, 78, 240 miles, Gandhiji, Sabarmati, Dandi, 24 days, about 10 miles, Mahatma Gandhiwherever, British, 6 April, Dandi, the Civil Disobedience Movement, the Non-Cooperation
Movement, cooperationThe Independence Day Pledge, 26, January1930‚We, The British Government, India, Indian, India, India, British, Purna Swaraj, British, 1921-22, ReservedForests, Congress, one, one, Abdul Ghaffar Khan, Gandhi, April 1930, Peshawar, A month later, MahatmaGandhi, Sholapur, British, about 100,000, Mahatma Gandhi, Irwin, 5 March 1931, Gandhiji, Tab, Congress, Dandi, MahatmaGandhi, thousands, 8, London, December 1931, Gandhiji, toLondon, India, Ghaffar Khan, Jawaharlal Nehru, Congress, Mahatma Gandhi, the Civil Disobedience Movement, over a year, 1934, MovementLet, theCivil Disobedience Movement, Patidars, ™, the Civil Disobedience Movement, 1931, 1932, Depression, Socialists, Communists, Congress, ™, Congress, ™, British, 1928, the Hindustan Socialist
Republican Army, HSRA, Ferozeshah Kotla, Delhi, Amongst, Bhagat Singh, Jatin, Das, Ajoy Ghosh, India, HSRA, British, April 1929, Bhagat Singh, Batukeswar, Dutta, the Legislative Assembly, the same year, Irwin, Bhagat Singh, 23, Bhagat Singh, ™, Inquilab Zindabad!, the CivilDisobedience Movement, the First World War, Indianmerchants, Chapter 5, 1920, the Federation of the IndianChamber of Commerce and Industries, FICCI, 1927, Purshottamdas Thakurdas, the Civil Disobedience Movement, first, Butafter, Congress, the CivilDisobedience Movement, Nagpurregion, Congress, inthe Civil Disobedience Movement, Gandhian, 1932, 1930, thousands, Gandhi, Congress, ™, the Civil Disobedience, Gandhiji™, thousands, 19, BabaRamchandra, April 1919, Rowlatt Act, JallianwalaBagh, January 1921, Non-Cooperation, Khilafat, February 1922, Chauri Chaura, Gandhiji, Non-Cooperation, May 1924, Alluri Sitarama Raju, two, December 1929, Lahore Congress, Congress, Purna Swaraj™, Ambedkar, Depressed ClassesAssociation, March 1930, Gandhiji, Civil Disobedience Movement, Dandi, March 1931, Gandhiji, Civil Disobedience Movement, December 1931Second, Gandhiji™, Congress, The Limits of Civil DisobedienceNot, One, ™, ™, aroundthe 1930s, Congress, Hindus, Mahatma Gandhideclared, a hundred years, ™, Indiansparticipate, 9, first, Amongst, India, the Contemporary World44or, ™, Dalit, the Civil Disobedience Movement, Maharashtra, Nagpur, B.R. Ambedkar, the DepressedClasses Association, 1930, Mahatma Gandhi, second, Round Tab, British, ™, Gandhiji, Ambedkar, Gandhiji™, the Poona Pact, September, the Schedule
Castes, Congress, Muslim, India, the Civil Disobedience Movement, the Non-Cooperation-Khilafat, Muslims, Congress, Congress, Hindu, the Hindu Mahasabha, Hindus, Muslims, Hindu-Muslim, two, Congress, the Muslim League, 1927, Muhammad AliFig, 10, Œ Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehruand, Sevagram Ashram, Wardha, 1935.45Nationalism  , IndiaJinnah, the Muslim League, Muslims, the Central Assembly, Muslim, Bengal
, Punjab, 1928, M.R. Jayakar, HinduMahasabha, the Civil Disobedience Movement, Congress, Muslims, Muslim, Muslims, India, aHindu, 1930, Muhammad Iqbal, the Muslim League, Muslims, Pakistan, the Indian Muslim, Indian, India, Quran, India, Indian, European, European, India, Muslim, Muslim, India, India, Hindu, India, Muslims, Punjab, Iqbal™, Contemporary, ™, Historyand, Fig, Œ Bal Gangadhar Tilak, twentieth-century, Notice, Tilak, IndiaThe, Chapter 1, Bharat Mata, Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, Vande Mataram™, Anandamath, Swadeshi, Bengal, Mata, Fig, 12, Bharat Mata, years, Bharat Mata, Fig, 14, one, ™, Indian, late-nineteenth-century, India, one, ™, one, ™, Bengal, Rabindranath Tag, 12, Œ Bharat Mata, Abanindranath, Abanindranath Tagore, Ravi Varma, Indian, Fig, 13, Œ Jawaharlal Nehru, Nehru, Bharat Mata, India, Bharat Mata, India, Contemporary World48‚In, India, Aryavamsa, days, Hindus, Tartar, China, India.™Tarinicharan Chattopadhyay
, The History of Bharatbarsh, 1, 1858.Source, Madras, Natesa Sastri, four, Tamil, The Folklore of Southern India, ™, ™, eight, eight, BritishIndia, Hindus, Muslims, By1921, Gandhiji, Swaraj, Gandhian, the end of the nineteenth, Indians, Indian, Britishsaw Indians, Indians, India™, India, India, British, Hindu, Hindu, Œ, Bharat Mata, Abanindranath Tagore, Figs, 12, 14, Indians, the first half of the, Congress, Mahatma Gandhi, ™, Congress, one, Congressactivity, India, the Cripps Mission, World War II, India, Thisled Gandhiji, British, India, The Congress Working
Committee, Wardha, 14 July 1942, Quit India™, Indians, India, 8 August 1942, Bombay, Gandhiji, Quit India™, thousands, Jayprakash Narayan, Aruna Asaf Ali, Ram Manohar Lohia, Matangini Hazra, Bengal, Kanaklata Barua, Assam, Rama Devi, Odisha, British, more than a
year, ™, Bombay, India MovementIndia, the Contemporary World50DiscussProject1.List, the Non-Cooperation Movement, 1921.Then, three, the Civil Disobedience Movement, Indo-China, India, Indo-China, the First World War, the National Movement, Indians, Rowlatt, the Non-Cooperation, Jallianwala Bagh, Simon, Bharat Mata, Germaniain Chapter)
Yake
!pip install yake
import yake
kw_extractor = yake.KeywordExtractor()
language = "en"
max_ngram_size = 3
deduplication_threshold = 0.1
numOfKeywords = 10
custom_kw_extractor = yake.KeywordExtractor(lan=language, n=max_ngram_size, dedupLim=deduplication_threshold, top=numOfKeywords, features=None)
keywords = custom_kw_extractor.extract_keywords(text)
for kw in keywords:
    print(kw)
Requirement already satisfied: yake in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (0.4.8)
Requirement already satisfied: segtok in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from yake) (1.5.10)
Requirement already satisfied: numpy in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from yake) (1.19.5)
Requirement already satisfied: tabulate in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from yake) (0.8.9)
Requirement already satisfied: click>=6.0 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from yake) (7.1.2)
Requirement already satisfied: networkx in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from yake) (2.5.1)
Requirement already satisfied: jellyfish in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from yake) (0.8.2)
Requirement already satisfied: decorator<5,>=4.3 in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from networkx->yake) (4.4.2)
Requirement already satisfied: regex in /usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages (from segtok->yake) (2019.12.20)
('Civil Disobedience Movement', 0.0002537752002096307)
('Mahatma Gandhi', 0.0005258563048433801)
('World', 0.012711255418225736)
('2020-21', 0.017017205815546874)
('Nehru', 0.01880489946611769)
('Fig.', 0.023016184516453538)
('group', 0.07858279414784748)
('law', 0.09112306116655194)
('Quit', 0.10117857029585454)
('symbol', 0.14439514450282545)
gensim
from gensim.summarization import keywords
print(keywords(text))
movement
movements
india
people
indians
nationalism
nation
national
gandhiji
indian workers
news
differently
differing
differences
differ
began
british
gandhi
fig
figs
congress
government
governing
mahatma
communities
communication
community
communal
communalism
peasants
peasant
different groups
political
politics
politically
demanding
demanded
demand
demands
foreign
new symbols
activities
activity
active
nationalists
nationalist
colonies
colonialism
forced
force
forcing
forces
hindus
muslims
muslim
laws
law
came
leader
swaraj
like
police
import
important
imports
importance
satyagraha
march
marches
colonial state
nehru
revenue
revenues
masses
imported clothes
jawaharlal
non
hindu religious
organised
organise
organising
organisation
organisations
widespread
collection
collect
collective
collecting
participated
participate
participation
participants
participating
repress
repressive
repression
areas
area
taxes
economic
economically
group felt
local leaders
attacks
attacked
folk
council
councils
salt
class
classes
mass processions
discussing
discuss
cloth
clothing
forest
forests
war
struggle
struggles
irwin
stating
stated
large crowd
income tax
popular
raju
goods
goodness
good
land
time
times
april
high
figure
castes
later
arrested thousands
ali
wanted
wanting
general
generation
generated
muhammad
rights
right
peaceful
peace
process
processes
increasing
spread crowds
institutions
commission
chandra
spreading
spreads
schools
school
years
year
incomes
women
freedom
power
powers
powerful
business
cooperation
cooperate
representing
world
public
source
prices increased
depression
depressed
worked
work
working
ground
act
acted
left
words
word
meant
china
huge increase
develop
developing
developments
developed
development
dalit
dalits
reserved
civil
truth
truthfulness
army
extreme
tribals
tribal
bagh
social
socialism
gradually
arresting
declared
declaring
bose
epidemic
post
posts
procession provoking
chapter
boycott
boycotts
ambedkar
buildings
building
tagore
kisan
kisans
flags
flag
symbol
symbolic
novel
pradesh
vande
manohar
cattle
shots
baisakhi
unto
learning
ottoman
affected
intellectuals
intellectual
volunteers
sea
astrological
industrialists
dyer took
continued
continuously
unite
united
units
prints
print
violent
crops
crop
face
facing
industrial
industries
industry
widely
wide
places
place
bengal
passed
associated
associate
association
campaign
campaigns
simon
khadi
picketed
picket
belonging
locality
century
led
december
ghaffar
cultural
culturally
culture
khilafat
imagination
imagining
imagine
sastri
natesa
island far
programme
programmes
helps
helped
shops
shop
constituted
constitutional
constitution
gandhian
legislative
issue
issues
party
parties
landlords
landlord
villages
villagers
village
stations
satyagrahi
satyagrahis
red
composed
things
future
poor
begar
violence
bharatbarsher
bharatbarsh
bharat
men calm
oppressed
oppressive
oppresses
went
abanindranath
crawl
crawling
kotla
chattopadhyay
gave
committee
provinces
Sentence Similarity
#Sentence similarity
!pip install -U sentence-transformers
from sentence_transformers import SentenceTransformer
sentences = ["This is an example sentence", "Each sentence is converted"]

model = SentenceTransformer('sentence-transformers/paraphrase-xlm-r-multilingual-v1')
embeddings = model.encode(sentences)
print(embeddings)
from sklearn.metrics.pairwise import cosine_similarity
import numpy as np
dst_1 = cosine_similarity(np.array(embeddings[0]).reshape(1,-1), 
                           np.array(embeddings[1]).reshape(1,-1))
print(dst_1)
import nltk
nltk.download("punkt")
from nltk.tokenize import sent_tokenize
list1=[]
length=0
list1=sent_tokenize(text1)


embedding=model.encode(list1)
for i in list1:
  length=length+1
print(length)
cos=[]
for i in range(0,length):
  dst_1 = cosine_similarity(np.array(embedding[0]).reshape(1,-1), 
                           np.array(embedding[i]).reshape(1,-1))
  cos.append(dst_1)
  print(cos[i])
m=max(cos[1:])
print(m)
index=cos.index(m)
print(list1[index])
!git clone https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.git
!cd transformers
!pip install .
!pip install sentence_transformers
import scipy
from sentence_transformers import SentenceTransformer
model = SentenceTransformer('bert-base-nli-mean-tokens')
corpus=[i for i in text.split('\n')if i != ''and len(i.split(' '))>=4]
corpus_embeddings = model.encode(corpus)
queries = [
    'Afforestation and propermanagement of grazing can help']
query_embeddings = model.encode(queries)
closest_n = 5
for query, query_embedding in zip(queries, query_embeddings):
    distances = scipy.spatial.distance.cdist([query_embedding], corpus_embeddings, "cosine")[0]

    results = zip(range(len(distances)), distances)
    results = sorted(results, key=lambda x: x[1])

    print("\n\n======================\n\n")
    print("Query:", query)
    print("\nTop 5 most similar sentences in corpus:")

    for idx, distance in results[0:closest_n]:
        print(corpus[idx].strip(), "(Score: %.4f)" % (1-distance))
Relationship extraction
!pip install daterangeparser
from daterangeparser import parse
#relationship extraction
nlp = spacy.load("en_core_web_sm")
doc = nlp("After the fall of the Western Roman Empire in the 5th century, the Franks, like other post-Roman Western Europeans, emerged as a tribal confederacy in the Middle Rhine-Weser region, among the territory soon to be called Austrasia (the 'eastern land'), the northeastern portion of the future Kingdom of the Merovingian Franks.")
for ent in doc.ents:
  print("{} -> {}".format(ent.text,ent.label_))
doc = nlp(text)
for ent in filter(lambda e: e.label_=='DATE',doc.ents):
  print(ent.text)
import re
def dep_subtree(token, dep):
  deps =[child.dep_ for child in token.children]
  child=next(filter(lambda c: c.dep_==dep, token.children), None)
  if child != None:
    return " ".join([c.text for c in child.subtree])
  else:
    return ""

# to remove citations, e.g. "[91]" as this makes problems with spaCy
p = re.compile(r'\[\d+\]')

def extract_events_spacy(line):
  line=p.sub('', line)
  events = []
  doc = nlp(line)
  for ent in filter(lambda e: e.label_=='DATE',doc.ents):
    try:
      start,end = parse(ent.text)
    except:
      # could not parse the dates, hence ignore it
      continue
    current = ent.root
    while current.dep_ != "ROOT":
      current = current.head
    desc = " ".join(filter(None,[
                                 dep_subtree(current,"nsubj"),
                                 dep_subtree(current,"nsubjpass"),
                                 dep_subtree(current,"auxpass"),
                                 dep_subtree(current,"amod"),
                                 dep_subtree(current,"det"),
                                 current.text, 
                                 dep_subtree(current,"acl"),
                                 dep_subtree(current,"dobj"),
                                 dep_subtree(current,"attr"),
                                 dep_subtree(current,"advmod")]))
    events = events + [(start,ent.text,desc)]
  return events
extract_events_spacy("The Protestant Reformation was the first successful challenge to the Catholic Church and began in 1521 as Luther was outlawed at the Diet of Worms after his refusal to repent. ")
def extract_events_regex(line):
  matches = []
  # capture thee digit and four digit years (1975) and ranges (1975-1976)
  found = re.findall('In (\d\d\d\d?[/\–]?\d?\d?\d?\d?),? ?([^\\.]*)', line)
  try:
    matches = matches + list(map(lambda f: (f[0] if len(f[0])>3 else "0"+f[0] ,f[0],f[1]),found))
  except:
   return []
  return matches
  
def extract_all_events(text, extract_function):
  all_events = []
  processed = 0
  # Process the events
  for processed,line in enumerate(text.splitlines()):
    events = extract_function(line)
    all_events = all_events + events
    if processed % 100 == 0:
      print('Processed: {}'.format(processed))

  print("Extracted {} events.".format(len(all_events)))

  # Print out the events
  for event in sorted(all_events, key=lambda e: e[0]):
    print("{} - {}".format(event[1],event[2]))
extract_all_events(text,extract_events_spacy)
Evaluation in hindi
Evaluation of Hindi textbooks

!pip install pdfminer.six
!pip install io
from pdfminer.pdfinterp import PDFResourceManager, PDFPageInterpreter
from pdfminer.converter import TextConverter
from pdfminer.layout import LAParams
from pdfminer.pdfpage import PDFPage
from io import StringIO

def convert_pdf_to_txt(path):
    rsrcmgr = PDFResourceManager()
    retstr = StringIO()
    codec = 'utf-8'
    laparams = LAParams()
    device = TextConverter(rsrcmgr, retstr, codec=codec, laparams=laparams)

    with open(path, 'rb') as fp:
        interpreter = PDFPageInterpreter(rsrcmgr, device)
        password = ""
        caching = True
        pagenos = set()

        for page in PDFPage.get_pages(fp, pagenos, password=password,caching=caching, check_extractable=True):
            interpreter.process_page(page)

        text = retstr.getvalue()

    device.close()
    retstr.close()
  
    return text

text=convert_pdf_to_txt("/content/jhss101.pdf")
text
!pip install unicode
import PyPDF2
text=''
text1=''
FILE_PATH = '/content/jhss101.pdf'

with open(FILE_PATH, mode='rb') as f:

    reader = PyPDF2.PdfFileReader(f)
    num=reader.getNumPages()
    for i in range(num):
      page=reader.getPage(i)
      text=text+page.extractText()
    print(text.encode('utf-8'))
    text1=(reader.getPage(1)).extractText()
pip install pdf2image
from pdf2image import convert_from_path
images = convert_from_path('/content/jhss101.pdf')
for i in range(len(images)):
   
      # Save pages as images in the pdf
    images[i].save('page'+ str(i) +'.jpg', 'JPEG')
